Thirteen  informal hairstylists have finally received hair salon equipment, comprising of hairdryers, rollers and aprons, among other items which they were promised by the Buffalo City Metro last year. The group are part of a mentorship programme hosted by Estudio Glam, and the services Seta, as well as the Employers’ Organisation for Hairdressing, Cosmetology and Beauty (EOHCB). Local economic development and agencies portfolio head Mawethu Marata and other delegates from his office handed over the equipment at a ceremony held at the Cambridge Hall on Wednesday, which was also attended by a few ward councillors. HoD of the unit, Noludwe Ncokazi admitted that the hairdressing profession was often overlooked in South Africa and in BCM. “Beauty is a profession we didn’t take seriously, taking it for granted although we know everybody wants to look beautiful,” she said. Ncokazi added that for years they had been troubled by stylists working on street corners, concerned about the dangers to the environment but neglecting the fact that the stylists were entrepreneurs trying to make a living. “They aren’t stealing, or troubling anyone. “They are working hard for their money to support their families and we need to capacitate them.” Business development manager Xolelwa Majiza said the plight of hairstylists was highlighted by Estudio Glam director Lwandy Ngebe, who approached them to support her project to capacitate stylists. “We have focused on agriculture, arts and crafts and did not always pay attention to the hair industry, which we are committing to now. “This is just a start, and our support will filter through to other stylists on the ground, in the villages and townships who also need to professionalise their skills and get the resources they need from the municipality. “We want them to be accredited and certified with the relevant trade certificates they need and we will start incubation hubs to help them,” Majiza said. While the department had a threshold of R200000 for the sourcing of the equipment, Keema Pty Ltd, the service provider selected through the bidding process, had delivered the items they had requested at a cost of R71827, Majiza said. Hairstylist Pearl Bevu, who works from a container in Gompo said: “I’m ecstatic, it’s been a long journey and now that we are being recognised it’s very fulfilling and inspiring because suddenly people realise that our jobs are important.” Nompendulo Mpontshane, of Mpesh Hair Salon in the city centre’s Yazbek building, said her equipment was worn out. “I didn’t even have a dryer until now, so I’m so grateful,” she said. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za