Hunger for the development of a new business precinct and an end to quarrels among community members over housing are some of the cries of the youth of Buffalo City Metro’s ward 5. The ward, which comprises the ever-expanding Scenery Park as well as Mzonyana Water Works, Ndancama, Ekuthuleni squatter camp and the Haven Hills S-Road area, faces the challenge of providing business space for its local entrepreneurs. Many residents are questioning how a double-story building that used to serve as the area’s business centre and had a youth boxing gym on its premises was sold to a church group. The building, owned by Newhco construction company, which was contracted to carry out a housing project in the area in 2001, was sold to the Seventh Day Adventist Church of God last year in March. Most businesses have since vacated it and only a barber shop, owned by 38-year-old Thabo Sabetshu, is still active. “I remain here for security reasons. People wanted to vandalise this building after the other businesses left, so my presence keeps them away,” said Sabetshu. He claims to have been in contact with the church about issues surrounding the building and the fact that the church now charges him R600 rent a month, which is almost double the R350 he paid ex-councillor Vuyani Holiday. In February, the Daily Dispatch reported on the allegations of fraud against Holiday after the Economic Freedom Fighters branch in Scenery Park accused Holiday of collecting R100000 in rent from small businesses occupying the double-storey community building between 2007 and 2017. EFF Scenery Park branch chairperson Andile Faye accused Holiday of misusing resources meant for community purposes for his own personal benefit. Holiday told the Daily Dispatch at the time that the money collected was used to pay security guards at the building, a claim refuted by the business owners who said there was no security in the area. According to Sabetshu, the church is planning to demolish the boxing gym, which was used by many youth in the area, in order to expand the building. “This place needs a business centre for people like us. “It is very difficult to find business space for young people in this area. We have told the municipality to expand this plot and create a business precinct for us,” he said. Newhco property portfolio manager Len Kline said the municipality had failed to respond to their offer to come up with an inclusive plan for the use of the building so they could donate it to the community. “We were willing to donate it and we even went to council. “They took seven years to respond and instead sent a letter of summons to settle our debt, so we had no choice but to sell it,” said Kline. Responding to the residents’ calls for a business centre, Buffalo City Metro spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said: “It is highly unlikely that the City would have business centres in all 50 of our wards in the coming financial years. “However, we support emerging businesses and young people who want to start businesses in the Metro.” Despite initially agreeing to meet with the Daily Dispatch, multiple follow-up calls to ward 5 councillor Zandisile Tokwe to try and set up a time and a place to meet went unanswered. —mandilakhek@dispatch.co.za