Musician and businessman ProVerb has got to be one of the most upstanding guys around. His reputation is that of a genuine and humble guy who will go out of his way to help those in need. So‚ when he recently opened up about breaking down on stage because he was reflecting on how he had changed‚ it gave fans all the feels. “I broke down on stage the other day while telling fam in attendance about how I was a let down to my folks growing up‚ and how I’ve turned my life around and my parents look and talk me differently now. All I ever wanted was for them to be proud.” He posted the message alongside a picture of him covering his face. I broke down on stage the other day while telling fam in attendance about how I was a let down to my folks growing up, and how I’ve turned my life around and my parents look and talk me differently now. All I ever wanted was for them to be proud. A post shared by  ProVerbMusic (@proverbmusic) on Mar 11, 2018 at 1:56am PST In true Pro style‚ his next image was one of hope and motivation. You are not your mistakes, your disappointments, you flaws or your failures! These are the building blocks of you life, your story, your journey and will ultimately lead to your success. Keep going and give all the glory to God! A post shared by  ProVerbMusic (@proverbmusic) on Mar 11, 2018 at 3:35am PDT Bafana Bafana footballer Itumeleng Khune has hit back at a fan's suggestion that the star snubbed him when asked for a picture‚ telling the person to "appreciate the small things in life". The fan claimed that Khune refused to take a picture with him after a football match this week.… January 23, 2018 Eight years after Tumi Morake and Mpho Osei-Tutu tied the knot‚ the pair have reflected on their engagement‚ with the comedian admitting she couldn't stop laughing while Mpho popped the question. Tumi told Bona that her man popped the question while at the park and was so serious she thought… January 22, 2018 Zodwa Wabantu is ready to take the next step in her career and has been giving fans a glimpse of her new acting gig. TshisaLIVE last week revealed that Zodwa had relocated to Joburg after being offered a role on a new TV series which will air on SABC 1.… February 26, 2018