Police are investigating a case of child kidnapping involving East London magistrate Michelle Pillay. Gonubie police station commander Lieutenant-Colonel Tolekile Mdyogolo told the Dispatch that police officers were dispatched to Pillay’s home on Sunday night to retrieve the infant but Pillay refused to hand the child over, saying the police had no documentation to authorise such a move. The infant’s mother, Phumza Kadeni, was present. Mdyogolo said a kidnapping case had now been opened by Kadeni. “A case docket has been registered for investigation on the charge of kidnapping against the woman alleged to be keeping the baby.” Mdyogolo also revealed that a court order had been issued for an investigation into the matter on Monday. “The magistrate’s court issued an order to the chief social worker to investigate the matter provided for according to the Children’s Act to furnish the court with a full report and recommendations, for the court to decide on the matter.” Social workers from the Eastern Cape department of social development are also expected to come to Kadeni’s aid in her bid to get her eight-month-old daughter back. The Dispatch reported a week ago on a feud between Pillay and her former domestic help Kadeni, whom Pillay fired in January. Pillay was then accused of withholding the child from its mother. The Dispatch understands that since last week BCM district social workers have met with Kadeni several times in an effort to resolve the feud. Last week’s custody fight also saw social workers from Southernwood NGO CMR being accused of siding with Pillay. Kadeni said they had told her she couldn’t raise the child in a shack and that the child would be better off in Pillay’s luxurious Gonubie home. Pillay apparently also spoke to the social workers but she has steadfastly refused to comment. Kadeni’s father, Richman Kadeni, said he was present when the two social workers visited the Mzamomhle shack on Monday. “They told her she’ll never see her daughter again,” Richman said. “The social workers told us that the child was doing just fine at Pillay’s house and no amount of appeal would get Phumza her child back.” CMR manager Gaye Moonieya dismissed the claims against her social workers saying: “We have never had allegations of this sort in the past. The two staff members referred to have many years of experience and would never behave in such an unprofessional manner.” Questions sent to social development spokesman Mzukisi Solani had not been answered by print deadline. — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za