An East London traffic officer on point duty was knocked down at the congested Amalinda Main Road and Lennox Road intersection early yesterday morning. He survived but was in tremendous pain, said Buffalo City Metro spokeswomen Bathandwa Diamond. It was not a hit-and-run. Diamond said: “The accident was caused by a driver who collided into the back of the stationary vehicle, in turn causing the stationary vehicle to knock the officer over.” He was in a stable condition and had been taken for X-rays. Diamond said it was rare that traffic officers were injured while on duty. “When on duty, officers are given protective and visible clothing to wear when doing point duty,” she said. Mdantsane police spokesman captain Nkosikho Mzuku said: “Cambridge police are investigating a case reckless and negligent driving following an incident that took place in Amalinda Main Road this morning [yesterday].” No one was arrested, he said. However, provincial department of transport spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie said accidents involving traffic officers has become a worrying national trend. She said the Amalinda Main Road was known for heavy traffic in the morning. “Everyone should be accommodated and expect eventuality when travelling. Speeding or driving recklessly endangers the lives of other motorists.” — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za A traffic officer  was knocked over by a speeding  vehicle while he was controlling traffic congestion in Amalinda main road this morning. The incident happened at about 8am between CTM and Frere Hospital. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said the accident was not a hit-and-run. “The accident was caused by a driver… February 28, 2018 A violent altercation between a couple on the freeway ended with four men – including the husband of a pregnant woman who was tied up – being arrested by vigilant off-duty police officers. The drama happened on Tuesday during peak hour traffic on the N2 near the Amalinda off-ramp. It… November 12, 2015 PITBULL owner Travis Wade, who made headlines when his dogs attacked and killed former assistant nurse Haidee Pook last month, was entangled in a heated altercation after being involved in two hit-and-run accidents this week. Wade, 28, knocked two vehicles within minutes of each other but failed to stop at… August 9, 2014