The disputed ANC provincial leadership in the Eastern Cape is forging ahead with its programmes as it is hosting a cadres’ forum in East London today. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi exclusively told DispatchLIVE that all ANC deployees were expected to attend. “This is where status report is supposed to be given on ANC and governance matters. We also check how far governance has gone since the January 8 statement by President Cyril Ramaphosa,” Ngcukayitobi said. The Orient Theatre is expected to be a hive of activity as MPLs and councillors deployed by the ANC are supposed to attend. Party members are trickling in at the East London City Hall for registration. The forum takes place as the ANC is reconfiguring its troikas and intending to reconfigure its provincial governance. In recent days Mnquma council defied the ANC provincial leadership when it elected Ndyebo Skelenge as the mayor while the ANC wanted Thabo Matiwane. Such defiance issues are expected to top the agenda of the forum. It could not be confirmed at the time of writing if premier Phumulo Masualle and his executive will attend the forum. A major provincial cabinet reshuffle and troika shake-up in at least four Eastern Cape municipalities is on the cards. These include Mnquma, Enoch Mgijima in Komani, Port St Johns, as well as Walter Sisulu municipality in Aliwal North. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi announced this at a press conference held… January 30, 2018 Decisions of the ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) will be implemented and this includes the reshuffling of the provincial cabinet. This was said by ANC provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane at a cadres’ forum at the Orient Theatre in East London yesterday with close to 1000 members in attendance. Mabuyane said… March 13, 2018 Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba and Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies are expected to be among the cabinet ministers who will descend on East London tomorrow to take part in the ANC’s provincial lekgotla. The meeting, which will be held behind closed doors at the East London International Convention Centre,… February 3, 2018