Eskom on Monday announced that it had decided to halt its plans to cut power to the Nketoana local municipality in the Free State which owes the power utility millions. “Eskom has resolved to not proceed with the interruption of bulk electricity supply to Nketoana due to ongoing negotiations between Eskom and the municipality‚” the parastatal said in a statement. Last month‚ Eskom published its intent to interrupt bulk supply to municipality after it failed to honour its payment agreement for the settlement of almost R164-million. The communities of Lindley‚ Petrus Steyn and Reitz were to be affected by the power cuts which were scheduled to occur for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. But Eskom warned that the halt in its plans was not permanent. “Should the negotiations not yield positive results by April 26 2018‚ Eskom will revert to interrupting the municipality’s bulk supply with 48 hours’ notice‚” the company said. Municipality debts to Eskom currently amount to around R13-billion. The Free State province’s debt to Eskom is around R6.2-billion‚ while municipalities in Mpumalanga owe around R3-billion and the Northern Cape’s outstanding bill is about R1-billion. Residents in the cash-strapped Enoch Mgijima local municipality have been told that in April they can expect power cuts starting at six hours a day in the week and eight on weekends as a result of a R40-million debt to Eskom. Should a settlement not be reached between the municipality… March 12, 2018 Many towns in the province were left without electricity as Eskom went ahead with the planned disconnection of bulk electricity supply to four local municipalities this week. Late yesterday the Eastern Cape provincial government said it had intervened in a bid to halt the cuts. The affected municipalities – Gariep,… December 23, 2015 Municipalities in the Free State‚ Mpumalanga and the North West‚ the so-called premier league provinces‚ hold the bulk of Eskom debt‚ owed as a result of non-payment for the provision of electricity. About 42% of Eskom’s revenue comes from municipalities and the power utility told Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/national/2017-08-02-free-state-councils-are-top-eskom-debtors/ that no… August 2, 2017