A female motorist who stopped to assist a seemingly frantic half-naked woman in Mpumalanga found herself a victim of a trap which resulted in her being raped‚ said police. Sergeant Gerald Sedibe said the 36-year-old woman was driving on a road between Buchbuckridge and Lydenburg on Wednesday evening when she spotted the woman who flagged her down‚ signalling that she needed help. The motorist drove past the woman who was near some bushes. “After driving a few metres‚ the woman decided to drive back and assist. Immediately after stopping her vehicle‚ the half-naked lady disappeared and an unknown man popped out of the bushes wearing a balaclava and pointed her with a firearm‚” said Sedibe. “The suspect got inside the vehicle and instructed the woman to drive towards the Injaka dam‚ leading (her) into the bushes. He invited his friend to come over‚” said Sedibe. The woman tried to escape but they threatened to harm her. “The suspect fired a shot‚ forced her to undress and the (two men) took turns raping her. They further robbed the victim of an undisclosed amount of money‚ a cellphone and other belongings‚ then fled the scene in a green Volkswagen Citi Golf‚” said Sedibe. A car crash on the Mdantsane Access Road ended in horror for a 36-year-old woman who was robbed, dragged from the accident scene and raped in the nearby bushes.  Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mtati Tana said the incident occurred in the early hours of Saturday morning not far from traffic lights… April 26, 2016 Glen Grey police are investigating a case of murder and rape after a 68-year-old woman was found dead in her house in Tsembeyi village on Saturday. Nomayeza Goqi was last seen alive on Friday at her house in the village in Cacadu (known until recently as Lady Frere). Speaking on… December 6, 2017 Mystery surrounds the identity of a young woman whose naked body was found yesterday near the East London zoo. It is believed the woman, estimated to be 35 years old, was raped before she was killed. Homeless people living in the area and workers travelling on Beaconsfield Road were shocked… December 10, 2015