President Cyril Ramaphosa has defended his widely criticised walk with former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu on Saturday. “Qedani Mahlangu‚ like any other South African‚ is a person who must be treated as a citizen of this country. She is a comrade and whatever we have done‚ it does not mean we have to treat people with hatred and rejection and with total disdain‚” Ramaphosa said. Gauteng Democratic Alliance (DA) shadow health MEC Jack Bloom expressed shock at Ramaphosa’s walk besides Mahlangu during his trip from Regina Mundi church in Rockville‚ Soweto‚ to Mangalane garage in Chiawelo. Under Qedani Mahlangu’s watch at least 144 Life Esidimeni patients died. She later resigned as MEC. Ramaphosa hugged Mahlangu warmly and said that she should not be rejected as she had been held accountable‚ first by resigning and then appearing before the arbitration hearings headed by former deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke‚ said Bloom. In his view‚ Ramaphosa’s embrace of Mahlangu is grossly insensitive to the memory of those who died. “She has still not accepted full accountability for the Esidimeni deaths‚ shifting the blame onto officials. “Despite all the Esidimeni horrors‚ the ANC still treats her as a comrade and she remains a member of the ANC’s Gauteng Provincial Executive Committee. After all this time‚ the ANC’s Integrity Committee has not made a finding against her in this matter‚” Bloom said. He added that true justice will only be served when Mahlangu appears in court on charges that should include culpable homicide and even murder.  Qedani Mahlangu must still be held accountable for the “disgraceful‚ unprofessional‚ and inhumane way” she handled the treatment of state psychiatric patients‚ despite her resignation as Gauteng Health MEC on Wednesday‚ doctors say. “The findings by Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba on the deaths of 94 psychiatric patients in Gauteng… February 1, 2017 Gauteng’s former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu recently returned to South Africa from London‚ where she is studying. Mahlangu is expected to testify at the Esidimeni arbitration hearings on Monday. The scandal happened under her watch and led to 143 deaths of mentally ill patients who had been moved into dodgy… January 18, 2018 Families of the victims of the Life Esidimeni tragedy have called for former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu to testify in arbitration hearings as she led the project to close down Life Esidimeni hospitals despite warnings and to transfer very sick people to NGOs. Helping Hand‚ the charity arm of… October 23, 2017