The more than R244-million newly tarred 17km road from Tombo to Isilimela Hospital in Port St Johns was yesterday officially opened by Eastern Cape roads and public works MEC Thandiswa Marawu. The all-weather road surface from the R61 is a welcome development for the scores of villages that rely on Isilimela Hospital for medical help. There were also two bridges that were built during the project, which created much needed jobs in the area. Before the road was tarred, cars sometimes got stuck in the muddy gravel road when it rained, resulting in them not getting the help they so desperately needed. But now that is a thing of the past. It was all joy at Nqantosini field in Gomolo village when Marawu, PSJ mayor Nomveliso Cingo and ward 2 councillor Lubabalo Ndamase joined villagers in the official opening of the road. Marawu said her department was well on track to eradicate gravel roads in the province. “We spent R1.3-billion on construction, maintenance and repair of a number of roads, including the one we are officially opening which cost over R244-million. Hundreds of jobs were created and a number of SMMEs from this area benefited,” said Marawu. She said road infrastructure always receives special attention from all the department’s stakeholders, owing to the critical nature of roads in the socioeconomic activities of our province. “As such we have established a strong relationship with Sanral, who on numerous occasions has implemented various projects for the department,” she said. Marawu said the road was an all-weather access to Isilimela Hospital which has been upgraded from gravel to tarmac surfaced standard. “The department committed to the upgrading of this route from gravel to surfaced standard road. The 17km road entailed relocation of all services in the road reserve clashing with road design. Thus, all stormwater facilities, including three concrete bridges over major rivers and walkway for pedestrians.” The MEC said during the project, local businesses had benefited with 176 jobs created in the process. “This road was fully surfaced from the R61 near Port St Johns to the Isilimela Hospital. During the project 225 employment opportunities were created for local labourers with an expenditure of R19-million. “The project also employed 22 SMMEs with a total expenditure of R69-million,” she said. Ndamase said the newly built road and bridges would drastically improve the quality of life and services in the area. “This means a lot to us because we have had heavy rains already and we were able to drive freely, unlike before, where people could not get to the hospitals and schools, because of flooded bridges. “We hope investors will be motivated to come and invest in the area now. Life will be much easier now.” — ziphon@dispatch.co.za