The ANC in Luthuli House has confirmed that the party’s top six yesterday met with a group of Eastern Cape members disputing last year’s chaotic provincial conference. The group which supported then provincial chair Phumulo Masualle to retain his position yesterday headed for the governing party’s head office to seek clarity on the implementation of the Sbu Ndebele task team established to investigate the violence that broke out at the East London ICC chair-throwing conference. The group lodged an appeal against the provincial executive committee (PEC) elected from the controversial conference as led by new chairman Oscar Mabuyane who emerged after the chair throwing sent hundreds of delegates packing to watch the conference from outside. ANC national spokesman Pule Mabe today in a statement said the meeting was ‘constructive’. “The meeting was constructive and the comrades accepted the advice by the national officials to await the proper processing of the [Sbu Ndebele] report by the National Executive Committee (NEC),” said Mabe. The NEC meeting is scheduled for March 24-27. The Dispatch had previously reported that the Ndebele report  was recommending the disbandment of the PEC and reconvening of the provincial conference within three months. Among those who attended the Luthuli House meeting with the ANC top six were Masualle himself, former PEC members Andile Lungisa, Mlibo Qoboshiyane, Nancy Sihlwayi and Thandiswa Marawu.  National ANC bosses sent Eastern Cape officials packing yesterday after they arrived at the party’s Luthuli House headquarters uninvited, saying yesterday’s meeting was for national executive deployees to detail what happened at last week’s chaotic elective conference. The national officials told provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane and his executive that they… October 10, 2017 By ZOLILE MENZELWA and ZINGISA MVUMVU Vacate Calata House or we will physically remove you. That was the message from about 500 angry ANC members who protested outside the party’s provincial headquarters, Calata House, in King William’s Town yesterday. The group, led by former OR Tambo regional secretary Lawrence Mambila… March 6, 2018 BY MOIPANE MALEFANE and ZINE GEORGE The issue of the disputed Eastern Cape elective conference took centre stage at the ANC national executive committee (NEC) gathering yesterday, leading to the meeting being adjourned while the top leadership met behind closed doors. At issue was the report tabled by secretary-general Gwede… November 13, 2017