In an attempt to clamp down on unethical practices, the University of Fort Hare (UFH) has relaunched its fraud and corruption whistle-blower hotline. The hotline, 080 112 2562, was initially established in 2014 after a number of cases of corruption, fraud and maladministration surfaced at the university that led to the sacking of a senior official in 2013. The hotline was relaunched earlier this month after the initial contract between the previous service provider, KPMG, and the university ended last year. The university has since implemented Whistle Blowers (Pty) Ltd as their external independent whistle blowing hotline service provider. University spokesman Khotso Moabi, said the main objective of establishing the hotline was to create an enabling environment for colleagues, students, staff and members of the public to report anonymously suspicious foul play within the university. “This is done in line with the fraud policy, fraud prevention plan and the whistleblower policy which the university council approved in December 2017,” said Moabi. The line was operational from last week Wednesday. Asked whether fraud and corruption was currently a problem at the university, Moabi did not answer yes or no but stated that, “fraud and corruption is an inherent risk that every organisation faces”. “Most private and public entities have this line, not because of the current stats or incidents of those organisations but because it is viewed as a control measure to be put in place. “This has become commonplace within the business environment of South Africa and UFH is not an exception as we try for better administration and governance,” said Moabi. Last year in a one-on-one interview with the Dispatch UFH’s vice-chancellor, Professor Sakhela Buhlungu who was barely two months into his job at the time, said he was aware of the perception that corruption at the university was rife. “Frankly, the perception out there – I am very aware of it – is that Fort Hare is a rotten place, which has corrupt practices if not people – and I am not going to say yes or no. It is up to us to address this perception by doing things differently,” said Buhlungu. Moabi said all calls would be confidentially reported to Whistle Blowers (Pty) Ltd, which was completely independent from the university, and all matters reported would be forwarded to the university’s internal audit department. — arethal@dispatch.co.za In an attempt to clamp down on unethical practices, the University of Fort Hare (UFH) has relaunched its fraud and corruption whistle-blower hotline. The hotline, 080 112 2562, was initially established in 2014 after a number of cases of corruption, fraud and maladministration surfaced at the university that led to… March 12, 2018 THE University of Fort Hare is investigating a number of cases of corruption, fraud and maladministration at the institution. University spokeswoman Zintle Filtane confirmed the university was investigating the cases but would not provide specific details or names of employees suspected of being involved. “There are a number of investigations… May 3, 2013 Accusations of corruption between leading student political formations were thrown about during the highly contested University of Fort Hare (UFH) student elections yesterday.  The Daily Dispatch learnt the Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (Daso) had opened a case against a university official and the South African Student Congress (Sasco) for allegedly… April 22, 2016