President Cyril Ramaphosa and Deputy President David Mabuza on Sunday extended an olive branch to EFF leader Julius Malema and others‚ urging them to return “home” to the ANC.  “We would love to have Julius Malema back in the ANC. He is still ANC down‚ deep in his heart‚” Ramaphosa said. He also urged others to rejoin the ANC. “The ANC is the home of many political parties that splintered out of it and we would like to build unity amongst all our people.” Mabuza said earlier on Sunday he had a “special space in my heart” for Malema. “We had times together. He knows. When he was in the ANC‚ I supported him to be the president of the Youth League and I remember comrade Julius saying‚ ‘My blood is black‚ green and gold. I will never leave the ANC’.” Mabuza added: “I feel the ANC has lost in comrade Julius. The ANC will be better off with him inside the fold‚ so I am going to do my best to request him to reconsider coming back home.” Ramaphosa and Mabuza were on the campaign trail in Pretoria and Centurion on Sunday. The Electoral Commission (IEC) this weekend held a registration drive and address update campaign in preparation for the 2019 national and provincial elections. Ramaphosa said the ANC was willing to work with political parties that had similar ideologies and policies to the ANC. “I have always been open to receiving back those who have left and formed new parties.” Ramaphosa said the ANC aimed to win back the Tshwane‚ Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay metros in the general elections next year which they lost in the 2016 municipal elections. “They are in our palm and all we need to do is to close our hand and all the metros are back under the African National Congress’s control.” – TimesLIVE The ANC might have run out of ideas. President Cyril Ramaphosa and his deputy David Mabuza’s sudden attempt to woo EFF leader Julius Malema like lovelorn exes exposes that the ANC is unable to think of new ways to fire up its 2019 election campaign and reach out to new… March 13, 2018 ANC deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa, who is struggling to rid himself of the corporate suits in exchange for political boxing gloves, has predictably sparked controversy with his “boer” remark. While electioneering in Limpopo at the weekend, Ramaphosa urged black people to vote ANC, lest the boers take over the country… November 15, 2013 EFF leader Julius Malema this morning tweeted he will never leave his party following claims that he planned to return to the ANC. “I will never do that to my people, the EFF remains my only political home now and for the rest of my life,” Malema said on his… January 20, 2015