The Gauteng education department said on Friday it was investigating the circumstances surrounding an incident of learner misconduct in the wake of a viral video showing a learner throwing something at her teacher. The video footage shows the learner throwing what appears to be an exercise book at a teacher in the classroom. The teacher walks out of the class while appearing to make a phone call after being hit by the book. “Our preliminary investigation revealed that the said incident occurred at Three Rivers Secondary School in Sedibeng. We immediately dispatched officials to investigate this incident accordingly‚” department spokesman Steve Mabona said. He said officials from the psychosocial support initiative had already started with the counselling process of all pupils and teachers on Friday morning. He said the process to take the learner through a disciplinary hearing has started. Mabona said the department had also offered counselling to the affected teacher through the employee wellness programme. “We urge all our learners to refrain from acts of misconduct in schools; and implore parents to assist the department in instilling learner discipline in and outside the school environment‚” Gauteng education MEC Panayaza Lesufi said. Learners of a Kempton Park primary school have been put on antiretroviral drugs after a pupil injected class mates with syringes last week. “The Gauteng Department of Education can confirm that a Grade 4 learner brought syringes at ... Mooifontein Primary School on Friday and she and two friends allegedly… September 20, 2017 A video shared on social media of a white teacher telling black pupils that they could remain “idiots” has stirred up a bitter controversy over racism in the classroom. Twitter user @Mpoww–D posted the video online on Sunday and accused the teacher in Randburg‚ Johannesburg‚ of being racist and discriminatory.… January 22, 2018 Eastern Cape schools implicated last year in group cheating during matric exams have taken the Department of Education to court. The action comes after the department refused to release the results of implicated pupils. Department of Basic Education (DBE) spokesman Elijah Mhlanga yesterday confirmed that seven schools had taken the… October 29, 2015