It is all quiet at the Walter Sisulu University’s College Street learning site this morning. Security guards at the entrance are preventing anyone from entering. Students at the university’s Buffalo City campus have been boycotting classes since Tuesday after a mass meeting on Monday afternoon to embark on protest action. Students are scheduled to meet at Southernwood Park at 10am to “to strategise a way forward”. The students are demanding that the university improves conditions of residences they live in. On Tuesday, SRC deputy president Lonwabo Sikode told DispatchLive that they would not return to classes until their demands were met. Academic programmes have also been disrupted at the university’s Mthatha campus. SRC president Mxolisi Zoko told DispatchLive this morning that students decided during a mass meeting last to “officially boycott classes” until all their demands were met. “No learning is taking place. Students decided to stop attending lectures until their issue of accommodation allocation was finalised,” he said. Academic programmes have ground to a halt at two Walter Sisulu University campuses after students decided to go on strike. Since last week, students at the university’s Nelson Mandela Drive site on Mthatha campus boycotted classes over issues relating to accommodation and “academic exclusion” of fellow students. This morning, all… March 6, 2018 Walter Sisulu University students have vowed to continue with protest action over next year’s possible fee increases. Students at the Mthatha campuses abandoned classes last week and took to the streets, even blocking traffic on the N2 outside campus. Their protest action led to the postponement of the university’s special… August 23, 2016 Classes at Walter Sisulu University (WSU) in East London came to a halt yesterday after students embarked on a protest about the institution’s city residences. The SRC has complained that the university provides residences that do not meet higher education specifications. One of them is Clark House, an office block… May 26, 2017