THE police task team comprising  of the Hawks and other units of the police have arrested four Mancoba Seven Angels church ministries members who are allegedly linked to the murder case of Umzimkhulu church leader and his wife. Ndumiso Jali and his wife were shot dead at their premises in Clydesdale in Umzimkhulu early last month. The couple were shot and killed two weeks before the Ngcobo police shooting, that left five police officers and a soldier dead. Mancoba church members were later arrested in connection with the police and soldier shooting. The Jalis were also members and leaders of the controversial Seven Angels church in Umzimkhulu. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani  Zwane confirmed that two suspects appeared in Umzimkhulu Magistrate’s Court yesterday in connection with the murder. “We can confirm that two suspects aged between 20 and 30 appeared today in the Mzimkhulu Magistrate’s Court for two counts of murder and house robbery where the pastor and his wife were killed and cash taken from their house last month. They were remanded in custody until March 31 2018 for a bail application,” said Zwane. Zwane said he was not sure of what happened to the other two suspects. “Only those two appeared this morning and we are not sure about the rest,” he said. One of the controversial leaders of the Angels Ministry Church in Nyanga village, 31-year-old Phuthumile Mancoba briefly appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate's Court around lunchtime today on murder, robbery, attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm charges. Mancoba is the sixth suspect arrested in connected with the murder of… March 1, 2018 A series of disturbing, violent events connected to the Seven Angels church might reveal clues to the Ngcobo police station massacre. At the root of the narrative are two patriarchs of two religious families – the Mancoba brothers’ father Siphiwo and his former friend Ndumiso Jali. These two men ran… March 3, 2018 A fifth suspect in the brutal slaying of five Ngcobo police officers and an off-duty soldier appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Initially 10 suspects had been arrested in connection with the incident following a gunbattle with the police  which left seven suspects dead after a raid at… February 28, 2018