Multi-award winning group, MTN Joyous Celebrations, is singing a new tune in their latest album as they pay tribute to the masses that have supported them for the past two decades.  The album, All For You, is the group’s 22nd album and is out in stores from today. One of the founders, Jabu Hlongwane, said they named the album All For You to celebrate and pay tribute to all the thousands of people on and off the Joyous stage, who make up the rich and extended tapestry of the Joyous family. “We are in a space where we are saying to our fans ‘you keep us going’. We have been doing this for 22 years now, and over the years we’ve changed and tried different things, but our fans have remained loyal to us,” he said. This album follows their 2017 release, Heal Our Land, which was recorded at Bishop TD Jakes’ church, Potter’s House in Dallas in the USA. “Some people were not happy that we went and recorded an album in America, but they still supported us and we are grateful for that,” he said. All For You was recorded at the Sandton Convention Centre in December last year. Hlongwane said on days leading up to the recording in December they had to do last-minute changes. “We planned to record this album in an outdoor venue, but it rained for three weeks and we had to do last-minute changes. “We got the Sandton Convention Centre three days before the big day, but the people still came out in numbers and they did not ask us questions. “We are truly amazed by their love and support,” he said. For the first time the multi-award winning group released two singles ahead of the album release today. “We wanted them [fans] to have something while we worked on finalising things,” he said, adding that the first single, titled Umoya Kulendawo, had received raving reviews from their fans. “The way they grabbed and embraced the song was amazing. We released the second single, Modimo Ke Lerato and they loved it and our relationship with our fans is very important to us.” To show their appreciation, Hlongwane said they would be granting 22 wishes to their fans this year. “Our fans will get to share with us their biggest wishes and we will try to fulfil some of them,” he said. To find out more about the 22 wishes, fans are urged to follow the My Joyous Celebration Facebook page for more details. The group will be launching the album later this month in Carnival City. Hlongwane said they would be travelling across the country sharing new music. “Last year we decided to have pastors opening the shows. We moved away from just being a music show to being a community of believers praying together. We will continue doing that because there is a lot going on in the country and we need God more than ever,” he said. — poliswap@dispatch.co.za Gospel group to lead masses in worship. AWARD-winning gospel group, Joyous Celebration, is preparing to lead thousands in worship when they visit the province next month as part of their national tour. The group are to perform at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU), Indoor Sports Centre, Missionvale Campus, in… July 24, 2014 Award-winning South African gospel band Joyous Celebration continues to grow after years of inspiring the nation with powerful music. The group is celebrating 20 years in the music industry. One of the co-founders, Jabu Hlongwane, said their latest album, Joyous 20, was a celebration of their many years in the… April 19, 2016 Joyous Celebration’s frontman Ayanda Shange is bringing his long-awaited solo project to East London in April, when he will launch his album, The Praise Altar in the city.   Shange joined the award-winning group in 2010 and many will know him for songs such as Ushilo Njalo, Wangilwela and Nguwe… February 23, 2017