Police found a full human skeleton in his house – and that he carried around his mother’s skull when he went to the bank. A “grave violation” is under investigation by police in Limpopo. South African Police Service spokesperson Lt-Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said on Tuesday that cops in Lebowakgomo outside Polokwane have arrested a man in connection with a grave being dug up at Dithabaneng village in the Ga-Mphahlele area. “It is alleged that the suspect went to the local cemetery during December 2017 and started digging his mother’s grave open.” She had been buried in 2001. The dig continued until he finally exhumed her bones during January 2018 and took them home. On Monday‚ March 5‚ Ngoepe said members of the community noticed him moving around the village carrying a human skull and immediately summoned the police. On arrival‚ they found a full human skeleton in the suspect’s house and arrested him‚ said Ngoepe. “The preliminary police investigations have also revealed a lot of cattle bones in the same house and that furthermore the suspect sometimes carries his mother’s skull inside the bag when he goes to the shopping centres and banks‚ as he believes that will protect him from any danger.” Ngoepe said the man’s motive was still under investigation. He said it was “still not clear at this stage but the police investigations will tell as they are still unfolding”. The suspect will appear before the Lebowakgomo Magistrate’s Court soon on a charge of violation of a grave. Stokvel social clubs have been targeted in a spate of house robberies ahead of the festive season in Limpopo. Police said that criminals had specifically targeted clubs operated by women which involved large sums of cash. A 26-year-old man was arrested at Paledi Mall in the Mankweng policing area on… December 6, 2017 ANOTHER case of police brutality has been reported after a Mdantsane man was allegedly assaulted and injured by police for being drunk and disorderly inside his cousin’s house. The alleged incident happened on Saturday night at Mdantsane’s NU1 . Khululekile Mzothani claims that police officers, driving in two police vehicles,… March 7, 2013 Mbizana police have found a human head and a woman’s private parts in a shallow grave. Following a two-week investigation after a schoolgirl was found murdered and her body dismembered, they arrested a sangoma, 30, who led them to the grisly remains. The arrest was made by a task team… October 30, 2017