Kent Venish, brother of well-known policeman Dean Venish, was mugged and stabbed yesterday morning while jogging near Gonubie High School. Venish, 54, was stabbed twice in the arm and once in the chest by a male mugger while running at 6am. The assailant, wearing a white hoodie and jeans, stole his cell phone and a blue hydration bag. Luckily for the car salesman, a bystander who knows him helped him. “He struggled to run after he was mugged. A man who works in the area him saw him and called an ambulance,” said his wife, Sandra Venish. Venish was taken to the Life Hospital in Beacon Bay and later transferred to Life St Dominic’s Hospital in Southernwood. Sandra said Venish was in a stable condition after blood was drained from the wound close to his lung. Dean said that his brother told him that he had either broken or badly hurt the left arm of his attacker. The attack was reported to the Gonubie Police station, Dean added. The station commander, Lieutenant-Colonel Tolisile Mdyogolo, said this was the first case of a jogger being attacked since 2015. “We tell people that they should not jog or walk with their headsets on. “We have workshops where we educate people about these incidents,” said Mdyogolo. — mandilakhek@dispatch.co.za A Bonza Bay retired South African Airways captain, Terry Rurter, 73, survived a near fatal assault after he was mugged while running on Bonza Bay beach last week Thursday. He said he had to fight off the man, who he believed to be around 20 years old, to save his life.… August 29, 2016 An innocuous gardening decision to cut down alien gum trees has unleashed a swarm of killer bees in East London. Drought may also be bringing more bees into the urban areas in search of well-watered flowering Spring gardens, bee farmer Kola le Roux said. The SA Weather Office’s Garth Sampson… September 10, 2017 A furious swarm of bees attacked and killed an American pitbull and stung some people in an East London neighbourhood. The bees have left a Morningside community feeling terrified to move outside in case they incite the bees’ wrath. The swarm found a temporary home in a neighbour’s roof, but… September 8, 2017