SAPS national and provincial top brass over the weekend paid their respects at the last two funerals of the five policemen killed in Ngcobo last month. National and provincial SAPS generals yesterday bade farewell and gave a final salute to Constable Nkosiphendule Pongco at Malungeni village in Ngqeleni while on Saturday they saluted Constable Sibongiseni Sandlana who was buried in Qunu village near Mthatha. Three other police officers – Warrant Officer Zuko Mbini and Constables Kuhle Mathetha and Zuko Ntsheku as well as SANDF member Corporal Freddie Mpandeni – were buried in Ngcobo and Cofimvaba last weekend. Brigadier Nomazwi Nkombisa, head of the Cofimvaba cluster which includes Ngcobo, remembered Sandlana and Pongco as strong-principled members of C-relief, one of the best teams at the station. “Their shift was recognised as the best performing shift last year. We are thankful for their contribution and express our gratitude to the families for allowing them to work with us. “To all police, take up the spear from where Constables Sandlana and Pongco fell, pick it up and continue to work in their memory and honour,” she said. Provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga paid her last respects to the five heroes who lost their lives in the line of duty. “They have silently closed the doors on us and left and for that we miss them. The families will always be in our thoughts and prayers. The fact that they died while on duty, they will remain heroes and continue to linger in our thoughts,” she said. She reminded members to be always operational ready and prioritise their own safety. “I urge all police to pick up the spear where they left off,” said Ntshinga. Among the police top brass attending the funerals were senior police officials from national and provincial headquarters, including deputy national commissioner for policing, Lieutenant-General Sehlahle Masemola who was part of the leadership of the delegation, representing the ministry of police and the national commissioner’s office along with regional commissioner for management intervention, Lieutenant-General Dumisa Magadlela. Masemola encouraged communities to continue working with police in curbing crime and made a special plea to those who had been to the Mancoba’s Seven Angels Ministries to inform the police on the activities of the notorious church. “Let us know of any wrongdoing inside the church and report these to the police. We cannot co-exist with criminals.” By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI, LULAMILE FENI and SIKHO NTSHOBANE After yesterday’s swift detention of several people believed to be part of a gang that gunned down five police officers and a retired soldier in Ngcobo, the net is closing in on other suspects, with the police saying they are following strong leads.… February 23, 2018 Eastern Cape Police Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) boss Colonel Loyiso Mdingi has blamed provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga for Wednesday’s slaughter of five police officers and a retired soldier in Ngcobo. Mdingi, the Hawks organised crime unit commander in Mthatha, laid into Ntshinga, saying had she beefed up… February 24, 2018 A policewoman who survived last year’s shooting when unknown gunmen attacked officers at the Ngcobo police station believes her five slain colleagues were massacred by the same thugs that attacked them last year. Constable Zuko Mathetha, 27, of Ncorha in Cofimvaba, Warrant Officer Zuko Mbini, 45, of Zimbane Valley in… February 24, 2018