Award-winning music group Black Motion are planning to launch a R3.7m lawsuit against Comair after being escorted off a plane‚ allegedly because of the colour of their skin. City Press is reporting that Thabo “Smol” Mabogwane and Bongani “Murdah” Mohosana‚ as well as two members of their team‚ Nicky Seema and JJ Nchabeleng have accused Comair‚ which owns the British Airways franchise in South Africa‚ of racism‚ public humiliation and falsely accusing them of terrorism. In December TshisaLIVE reported that Thabo and Bongani were booked into business class and seated when an air hostess asked them to move to economy because a white woman’s seat was broken and she needed to move seats. They questioned why they were singled out to move to economy over other passengers in business class and were apparently told their tickets were “worth less.” “The fact is that there were only two black people in economy and they were asked to move. When they asked why they were being chosen‚ they (the air hostess) told them their ticket was cheaper. We asked them why they were not accommodating us and they said they were doing so by putting us in economy‚” said Black Motion’s road manager‚ Nicky Seema‚ at the time. After things got heated between the duo and the air hostess they were escorted off the plane after the captain had them removed for being “aggressive.” Comair said it would investigate the incident and City Press reports letters from Comair CEO‚ Erik Venter‚ said it “apologises unreservedly” admitting that “our procedures were at fault.” But Comair has rejected claims of racism and said downgrading occurs because when people travel on discounted tickets. Award-winning music group Black Motion are seeking legal advice after they were allegedly escorted by police off a British Airways flight to Johannesburg on Monday following an apparent racist incident. A representative for the dance duo has told TshisaLIVE Thabo "Smol" Mabogwane and Bongani "Murdah" Mohosana were booked into business… December 5, 2017 British Airways on Wednesday confirmed to TshisaLIVE that it had issued an apology to music duo‚ Black Motion‚ who cast the spotlight on an alleged racist incident that resulted in them being escorted off a flight on Monday afternoon. Thabo "Smol" Mabogwane and Bongani "Murdah" Mohosana were singled out to… December 6, 2017 Following an internal investigation into allegations of racism leveled against British Airways crew by music group‚ Black Motion‚ the airline has admitted that staff members should have handled the situation better. Accusations of racism came to light earlier this week after group members Thabo "Smol" Mabogwane and Bongani "Murdah" Mohosana… December 8, 2017