Cathcart came to a standstill on Monday after residents took to the streets, burning tyres, spilling refuse bins and burning a truck down.  Residents showed their frustrations at what they said was lack of services in the area by blocking the streets and breaking a window at the municipal offices. Schools, shops, post office, municipal buildings and all other businesses in the small town, including garages, had to be closed. Isaac Mthembu, an employee of Aqua transport whose truck was burnt at 8.30am, said the truck had broken down on Sunday.  Ceshemba Vakalisa, a community leader, said the protest was the continuation of last year’s protest after residents raised their demands to Amahlathi local municipality and Amathole district municipality about the lack of services. “Water in Cathcart needs to be upgraded as there are areas that have been without water for close to a year. There is an RDP houses project which is on standstill, the reason for that is that there is no water and sanitation infrastructure to continue with phase two of the project,” he said. Both municipalities failed to respond to the questions sent by to them by DispatchLIVE on Monday morning.      Police have warned motorists travelling along the N6 towards Cathcart to proceed with caution as a service delivery protest flared up again after it started on Thursday. Around 100 angry South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) members took to the streets to display their grievances and even marched to Enoch… March 24, 2017 Homeward-bound holidaymakers have found themselves victimised and trapped in the middle of an acrid fight between the community and the municipality in Aliwal North. In a disaster for Eastern Cape tourism, which relies heavily on festive season visitors from the north, protesters from Aliwal North have played cat-and-mouse with the… January 4, 2018 Komga residents shut down businesses and schools and halted all activity in the town yesterday after blocking the R63, demanding that the mayor leave his office. Tension mounted on Monday when the protests first started and saw residents block off the road with burning tyres in a bid to have… March 29, 2017