The ANC may need to shelve some of its scheduled regional elective conferences until after next year’s general elections. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi said the decision was made at Monday’s provincial executive committee (PEC) meeting. But, he said, a fact-finding mission would first have to be conducted to establish which regions would be able to elect leaders and which would not. “The general feeling is that we should put the conferences in abeyance as things stand because we are not ready for them. “But we are ready for other processes such as the list conferences and the election processes.” Due to elect new leaders are OR Tambo in Mthatha, Dr WB Rubusana in Buffalo City Metro, Sarah Baartman in Grahamstown, Joe Gqabi in Aliwal North and Chris Hani in Komani. This comes after a directive last month from the national executive committee (NEC) instructing all provinces due to elect leaders, as well as ANC regions still due to go to regional conference, to ensure that they convene these meetings before June. Free State and KwaZulu-Natal are preparing for their own elective provincial meetings, and Mpumalanga is preparing for its provincial general council where a new chairman will be elected to fill the position left vacant by now Deputy President David Mabuza. The NEC set aside June to start its election campaign in the run-up to next year’s general elections, and resolved that all programmes related to electing leaders, which usually causes divisions in the ruling party, be wrapped up by then. Ngcukayitobi said: “It is almost a year before elections, but about five regions are still supposed to go to their conferences in the Eastern Cape. Part of the requirement is auditing of members and having branch general meetings, which take a lot of time.” The PEC resolved to visit all five regions and craft a report on the state of readiness to hold elective meetings. According to the party’s provincial working committee report, tabled at its meeting in January, all the regions except OR Tambo were supposed to have dealt with pre-auditing of branch membership by the end of June. But Ngcukayitobi admitted this week that the process was time-consuming, and so the province may have to appeal to the NEC to shelve the elective meetings until after the general elections. “Auditing alone cannot take less than a month with all the processes that are undertaken by that particular programme. “So we agreed at the PEC that we must make a thorough investigation on the state of readiness for each and every region and make proposals to the NEC. “There is a consensus that the elections take precedence over our intra-conferences as the organisation. Fortunately there is no collapse of the organisation in the Eastern Cape,” said Ngcukayitobi.