Struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela Mandela is optimistic about the ANC’s chances in the 2019 general elections‚ saying the party is chasing a two-thirds majority win.  Speaking at her voting station in Orlando West on Saturday where she went to verify her address and confirm her registration‚ Madikizela-Mandela said the ANC was beginning to overcome the challenges it was plagued with. President Cyril Ramaphosa accompanied her to the Orlando West High School where she was also flanked by Gauteng Premier David Makhura. She joked when officials could not find her address in the system and then updated her details with IEC officials present. Earlier‚ Ramaphosa visited Madikizela-Mandela at her home nearby. She asked the president whether he didn’t tire from his 5km walk on Saturday morning from the Regina Mundi Church. “No‚ we can’t get tired when you have given us work to do‚” Ramaphosa told the veteran. Earlier Ramaphosa went to his voting district in Chiawela‚ the part of Soweto he grew up in. He was met by IEC deputy chairperson Terry Tselane and praised the professionalism of their officials. In all his interactions with the public on Saturday‚ Ramaphosa urged people to register to vote in the elections. “People must verify if their addresses are correct so that they can play a part in democracy‚” he said. – TimesLIVE The ANC's top six recently elected leaders visited Winnie Madikizela-Mandela at her Soweto home on Monday night‚ delivering a copy of the ANC's January 8 birthday pledge. The party is promising to "rebuild our movement and turn the South African economy around. We will mobilise all social partners behind an… January 16, 2018 Struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela Mandela celebrated her birthday in characteristic style with thousands of ANC Women’s League members in Orlando West‚ Soweto on Monday. Madikizela Mandela turned 80 years old. Her birthday celebrations which have been going on since early September in parts of the country‚ including Cape Town‚ continued… September 26, 2016 ANC deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa lightened the mood at the state funeral of former president Nelson Mandela when he thanked Malawian president Joyce Banda for her tribute on Sunday. "As we celebrate Madiba's life we also remember important concepts Madiba taught us -- tolerance and forgiveness," Ramaphosa told mourners in… December 15, 2013