The Twitter community has come out with guns blazing – demanding answers from Woolworths amid suspicions that the retailer has been repackaging ready-to-eat meat products from Enterprise Foods and then charging exorbitant prices for them.   Polony and a list of other Enterprise products from its Polokwane and Germiston factories were identified as the source of the world’s largest outbreak of listeriosis by the Department of Health. After the announcement‚ Woolworths has decided to recall any ready-to-eat meat products linked to Enterprise and to refund customers. #countryDuty#listeriosis Here's the @WOOLWORTHS_SA     possible affected goods. pic.twitter.com/FHzkiwqheo — Tumi Sole (@tumisole) March 5, 2018  You mean none of your Enterprise-manufactured-Woolworths-branded products have been fingered for Listeriosis? We applaud that but the real revelation is that Woolies sources from Enterprise. Then lectures the nation about business ethics — WaiK (@WaiJk) March 5, 2018  Spokesperson for Woolworths Kirsten Hewett refuted claims that the establishment charged exorbitant prices or repackaged products from Enterprise which were found to be the source of the fatal disease. So @WOOLWORTHS_SA you gave just been repackaging products and then  charge exorbitant prices? Sies!!!!#Listeriosis #CountryDuty https://t.co/PH9BhPrkdI — Sharon Thembeka Jack  (@sharonvdross) March 6, 2018  @WOOLWORTHS_SA please enlighten me how your vienna’s and salami products could possibly be infected with #Listeriosis if ground zero is an Enterprise factory. As a regular client I deserve an answer and so far I haven’t read any relevant press release from Woolies. — CoachingPowerhouse (@Time2Coach) March 6, 2018  “We do not stock any Enterprise products. Woolworths’ range of sliced and processed meats is strictly made to our own unique formulations and recipes. The raw materials‚ formulations and processes used in the production of our products are clearly specified by Woolworths and are required to adhere to the highest standards of quality and safety‚” Hewett said. She said that in addition to regular visits by food technologists‚ independent audits validate all processes. “Woolworths ready-to-eat products are sliced and packed in a dedicated production facility within Enterprise Polokwane and Germiston. “Microbiological testing is done on a daily basis according to strict Woolworths protocol. In addition independent routine product testing is done within our stores and is submitted to an external lab for analysis‚“ said Hewett. – TimesLIVE Pick n Pay and Woolworths have started recalling all products named as possible culprits in the Listeriosis outbreak. “Following the Minister of Health’s announcement earlier on the source of the listeria outbreak‚ Pick n Pay has acted immediately to withdraw all products from the manufacturing sites identified by the Department… March 5, 2018 Enterprise Foods has withdrawn all ready-to-eat meat products and has closed the two factories manufacturing these products‚ its parent company Tiger Brands said on Monday. However‚ Lawrence MacDougall‚ CEO of Tiger Brands‚ said there was no direct correlation between their products and the 180 deaths caused by the listeriosis outbreak.… March 5, 2018 One factory has been blamed as the source of the world’s largest outbreak of listeriosis - the Enterprise polony factory in Polokwane‚ Limpopo. This emerged at a media conference on Sunday at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases in Johannesburg. The world’s largest outbreak of listeriosis has occurred in South… March 4, 2018