The hawks’ investigating officer in the brutal murder of a Mbizana schoolgirl told magistrate Nombuzo Nqwenani yesterday that a murder-accused sangoma had confessed to killing the teenager. Sergeant Tandokazi Jojo-Gwazela said 31-year-old Olwethu Mbalwa of KwaNikhwevillage in Mbizana had initially denied killing Sinoyolo Mgaga, 17, who was gruesomely hacked to death in KwaNikhwe on October 15. Mbalwa was arrested October 27. “When found and cornered he told it all, telling how brutally he killed the victim. “He made a confession and led police to where he hid the missing human parts, including the head and vagina. He added that it was his muthi which led him to the victim and instructed him to slaughter her,” Jojo-Gwazela said. Senior state prosecutor Betty Centane has been opposing bail, arguing that if he is released Mbalwa will disappear as he was undocumented. “It is not even a matter of that he lost his ID or birth certificate, but he never in his life had those crucial documents. “Even now we do not even know for sure that he is Olwethu Mbalwa,” he said. Mbalwa is facing charges of murder and mutilation of female body parts. The teen was a Grade 10 pupil at Tshayingca High School. Centane also revealed in court that the medicine man had convictions of assault with intent to do bodily harm, and of being in possession of stolen property. It is also the state’s case that Mbalwa used Mgaga’s cell phone to call his girlfriend and other people, before selling it for R50 to a street vendor not far from where the sangoma had a stand selling traditional medicines in the CBD. The case was postponed to March 18. Mbalwa is still in custody. -lulamilef@dispatch.co.za   An Mbizana schoolgirl’s muti killing trial took a shocking new twist yesterday when an investigating officer claimed that the teen’s aunt had her niece sacrificed for money. This was police evidence delivered in sangoma Olwethu Mbalwa’s application for bail yesterday. Hawks investigating officer Sergeant Tandokazi Jojo-Gwazela told Mthatha magistrate Nombuzo… March 2, 2018 A sangoma accused of murdering a schoolgirl who was found decapitated and with her private parts removed yesterday told the Mbizana Magistrate’s Court that he had no faith in his Legal Aid attorney. Olwethu Mbalwa, 31, of KwaNikhwe near Mbizana, who faces charges of murder and mutilation, urged magistrate Nombuso… February 22, 2018 “I HAVE a reputation for killing people with muti.” These were the words of a well-known Eastern Cape sangoma as he testified in a Bhisho High Court trial concerning the 2010 murder of a King William’s Town civil servant. Vuyani Sibanda, 42, is accused of conspiring to gun down Nthutuzelo Makeleni… October 29, 2013