After 22 years as spokeswoman of the SAPS at the Eastern Cape provincial head office, Brigadier Marinda Mills, 51, has joined the Mdantsane police cluster as a deputy cluster commander.  In her new job, which began this month, Mills faces the huge task of implementing strategies to fight crime in one of the largest and most notorious of townships in South Africa where she will oversee 10 police stations. Mills, born in Uitenhage on March 1 1965, joined the SAPS at the tender age of 17 in the front-line fighting crime on the streets of the town. After 13 years in the trenches, in 1996 Mills became the first spokesperson for the Eastern Cape provincial police commissioner. This after she was promoted to colonel responsible for Lieutenant-General Gerrie Bezuidenhout’s public image. Mills told the Saturday Dispatch yesterday her first priority in the new job would be tackling crime, particularly rape and domestic violence, against women and children “To me the key factor lies in providing the best resources to local level officers and to ensure that command and control is established at all levels. I would like to place extra emphasis on crimes against women and children and make sure that those who are vulnerable receive the best possible care and help.” Mills said it had always been her intention to finish the last five years of her career before retirement kicked in to return to policing at a community police level. “It is here where service delivery takes place and where a difference must and can be made. With my 35 years of experience I know that I can help improve policing services to our people.” In her career in the SAPS, the Brandwag High School matriculant rose through the ranks, becoming a senior manager in 2006 after a promotion to brigadier. She became the provincial head of corporate communication until her resignation last week. Mills left her home town in 2003 when the provincial head office relocated from Port Elizabeth to Zwelitsha. “My most cherished promotion was to the rank of officer-lieutenant “It is indeed special to become a commissioned officer because your commission certificate is signed by the state president and you are greeted with a salute by fellow officers and non-commissioned officers.” Mills holds a National Diploma in Police Administration, diplomas and certificates in public relations, project management and leadership. She has worked under seven provincial commissioners including the current one, Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga, as well as the first provincial commissioner in South Africa, LieutenantGeneral Bezuidenhout. Her work as provincial head of corporate communication did not only entail being a spokesperson but also meant managing the SAPS’s extra-mural activities, including band and choirs. An internal SAPS disciplinary committee has found embattled Eastern Cape police communications head Brigadier Marinda Mills guilty of negligently signing a travel claim without first verifying its legitimacy and contravention of Public Finance Management Act regulations. Now it is up to the new provincial police commissioner, Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga, to… August 5, 2016 A SENIOR police officer with more than 30 years’ experience in the force was gunned down outside her Elliotdale home on Tuesday night. Police said Lieutenant-Colonel Nomalizo Dukumbane had returned from work just after 7pm when two men appeared behind her and opened fire on her, killing her instantly. Provincial… December 19, 2013 The fraud‚ corruption and forgery case against Eastern Cape Police communication boss Brigadier Marinda Mills has been rolled over for a day. Mills‚ head of the Eastern Cape Communications Division‚ appeared on Monday at the Zwelitsha Magistrate’s Court after she was arrested and released on a warning in December 2015.… January 30, 2017