Road accidents claimed the lives of four people this morning in various parts of the province. Three people died when the taxi they were travelling in overturned after colliding with a Translux bus outside Aberdeen. The taxi was travelling from Western Cape to the Eastern Cape. Two males and one female died, while six of the eleven injured were rushed to Midlands Hospital in a stable condition. In another accident in Mqanduli, one person was killed and four others sustained injuries when the bakkie they were travelling in overturned near Upper Ngqwarha. The identity of the deceased had not been established at the time of writing. Another vehicle overturned while travelling in Sterkspruit, but no fatalities have been reported. Department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo appealed to road users to practise extra caution on the roads. “Early morning accidents are mainly caused by fatigue and or are alcohol related. We plead with drivers to plan trips thoroughly and avoid drinking and driving. If we practice good behaviour on the roads we can minimise the number of accidents we witness.” — nonsindisoq@dispatch.coza Seven people have been killed in two separate accidents on Eastern Cape roads this morning. Four people died 30km outside Graaff-Reinet when the mini-bus taxi they were travelling in collided with a truck. Provincial health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the taxi was travelling from Cape Town to Mount Flere. … September 23, 2017 A South African National Defense Force soldier was one of 14 lives that were lost in deadly accidents across the province in what was described as a "horror" weekend on our provincial roads by authorities.  The unidentified soldier was killed when a SANDF vehicle he was travelling in overturned while towing another military vehicle.  Details of… May 7, 2016 A total of 10 people have died in different accidents on Eastern Cape roads today. Dozens were rushed to various hospitals across the province with minor and serious injuries. In the latest accident which happened this evening, three people died when the vehicles they were traveling in collided head-on near… March 3, 2018