Amatola Water Board has a new Chief Executive Officer,  Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s executive director of corporate services. Vuyo Zitumane’s appointment comes months  after the chairwoman Nokulunga Mnqeta gave former CEO Lefadi Makibinyane marching orders. Makibinyane’s  exit followed a dramatic suspension ,  in March last year in the middle of chairing the company’s 2017-18 strategy session at the East London Golf Club he was served with a suspension letter. Zitumane who resigned from the municipality on Wednesday has been part of a number of  government intervention programmes. Former  Eastern Cape Tourism Board chairwoman administrator at the troubled Mnquma Local Municipality was r sent to the Nelson Mandela  in  2015 as part of an intervention from the  national government. The municipality later retained her as a  permanent  corporate services director . More on this story in the Daily Dispatch tomorrow. Striking Amatola Water workers returned to work yesterday morning following urgent intervention by Minister of Water and Sanitation Nomvula Mokonyane, who has ordered an investigation against Amatola Water Board chairwoman Nokulunga Mnqeta. Thousands of residents from Buffalo City Metro, Amathole District Municipality and parts of Chris Hani District Municipality, among other… October 10, 2016 VUYO Zitumane, the former Nelson Mandela Bay Metro’s economic development and tourism business unit manager, is a well known “Mrs Fix It” of the province. The Johannesburg-born but Mthatha-raised mother of four, was once tasked to turn around a troubled King Sabat a Dalindyebo Municipality before being assigned to fix… March 16, 2013 Digitise government business to deliver fast, efficient services and automate community meetings to get more input into understanding residents’ needs and concerns. These were among many suggestions to come out of discussions by delegates attending an annual two-day information and communications technology (ICT) summit, now in its 13th year, at… November 27, 2017