The business rescue practitioners of eight Gupta-owned mines — including Optimum‚ Brakfontein‚ Koornfontein and Shiva — have given hope that the mines can be brought to being operational‚ Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe said in Parliament on Wednesday.  The minister made his first appearance before the portfolio committee on mineral resources which is probing the situation at the mines. Workers at Optimum have been on strike recently over concerns about the non-payment of salaries. Mantashe said he had engaged with the trade union at Optimum and would go to Optimum on Thursday to discuss the situation at the mine with workers. The minister had been assured by the business rescue practitioners that workers and creditors had been paid and that the mines were working.
“They gave hope that the mines can be brought back into operation‚” he told MPs. Mantashe emphasised that mining was not for speculators and was a long haul investment.
“If you are in a hurry to get money … you are in the wrong place‚” Mantashe said. Money had to be ploughed into the operation before it could be made. Optimum was placed under business rescue late last month. This was was precipitated by the withdrawal by the Bank of Baroda of their banking facilities. The mine has been issued with a non-compliance notice for failing to adhere to its social and labour plan commitments and its rehabilitation obligations. The financial provision for the rehabilitation of Optimum and Koornfontein mines is held by the Bank of Baroda. It was subjected to a freezing order in September last year granted in favour of the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse. The Optimum rehabilitation fund has a financial provision of R1‚6bn as against a liability of R1‚5bn. Brakfontein has a R12m shortfall in his provision for its rehabilitation liability of R21m. Koornfontein has no shortfall and Idwala has a shortfall of R6m. — BusinessLIVE Koornfontein coal mine is the second Gupta-affiliated mine not to pay salaries to its workers. This was revealed by the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) and follows the failure of Optimum coal mine to pay its workers their salaries this month. Workers at Optimum downed tools on Wednesday saying they… February 23, 2018 Just days after he danced a joyous jig during a rapturous welcome back to Eskom‚ Brian Molefe’s position at the helm of the parastatal appears to be in doubt. Senior ANC officials have told the government and public enterprises minister Lynne Brown to rescind his reappointment as CEO. ANC secretary-general… May 17, 2017 Parliament’s portfolio committee on mineral resources has been asked to step in at the Gupta-owned Optimum coal mine in Mpumalanga‚ where workers have been on strike for the past three days. Eskom said on Thursday it had stopped paying Optimum because of its failure to deliver the required coal to… February 23, 2018