SABC board member Febe Potgieter-Gqubule has resigned to take up a post at Luthuli House.  “As indicated in her appointment interview by the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee of Communications (PCC) in September 2017‚ Ms. Potgieter-Gqubule undertook to resign from the Board if she was appointed in any official capacity which could potentially constitute a material conflict of interest‚” the SABC said in a statement. “The African National Congress (ANC) has now confirmed that Ms. Potgieter-Gqubule has been appointed as the ANC’s Elections General Manager and‚ accordingly‚ she has tendered her resignation from the SABC Board which will be duly communicated to the President and the PCC.” Potgieter-Gqubule was initially appointed in March last year to the SABC’s interim board‚ whose job was to rescue the struggling broadcaster from its financial crisis and governance problems. She was appointed deputy chair on the permanent board in October. Potgieter-Gqubule’s departure has left three board vacancies‚ the SABC said. The broadcaster said it would inform the relevant authorities of the urgency of filling the vacancies. “The SABC Board wishes to express its gratitude to Ms. Potgieter-Gqubule for her outstanding contribution to the SABC both as Interim Board member and as Deputy Chairperson of the current Board. We wish her well in her new role‚” the SABC said. -TimesLIVE Newly appointed SABC board chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini has resigned from the foundation of one of President Jacob Zuma’s wives. “I got appointed [SABC board chairman] yesterday and I resigned [from the foundation] today as promised‚” Makhathini told Business Day on Wednesday. Prior to his appointment as SABC chair‚ Makhathini occupied… October 18, 2017 President Jacob Zuma has appointed SABC board members recommended by parliament‚ his office announced on Tuesday. The announcement follows looming court action after Zuma missed a deadline to approve the new board. He was accused of deliberately delaying the decision for political reasons. Bongumusa Makhathini is chairperson‚ with Febe Potgieter-Gqubule… October 17, 2017 A cash strapped SABC has admitted in Parliament that it is not only facing a financial crisis but its flagship commercial television and radio stations are fast losing audiences. SABC acting CEO James Aguma said “internal dynamics” like negative news stories were also playing a major role in the corporation’s… May 10, 2017