A R34.7-Billion budget, R23-billion of which will go towards paying teachers’ salaries, is not enough to meet all the needs of the education department.  This was revealed by MEC of education Mandla Makupula, who said even though the department had received the lion’s share of the province’s R78-billion budget, he would be happy with more. “Remember, unlike other departments, we are a labour intensive department, and in order for things to get done we need to hire people and pay them,” said Makupula. He was speaking at an engagement session held at the East London Education Institute in Stirling yesterday, where he invited various stakeholders in the education sector to give them an idea of what his upcoming budget and policy speech would entail. Makupula will be tabling his budget and policy speech to members of the provincial parliament in Bhisho next Wednesday. Structures represented at the engagement include the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu), the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), the District Education Forum (DEF), the National Association of School Governing Bodies (NASGB) and the Congress of South African Students (Cosas). Those who attended were given the opportunity to add their input and make suggestions after the MEC’s speech. Makupula said while most of his colleagues had finalised their speeches, he had decided to involve stakeholders to ensure all burning issues were addressed. Similar to his previous budget speeches Makupula will start by accounting for the 20172018 (previous financial year) by listing the department’s achievements and challenges. That will be followed by an update on the progress made on the department’s education transformation plan, which includes the rationalisation of schools. Some of the department’s plans mentioned by the MEC included the integration of the functionality of early childhood centres with Grade 1, to inject R2-billion into teacher development and the expansion of the curriculum by introducing more maritime and agricultural and technical vocational studies. The MEC said some focus would also be channelled into the further education and training phase (Grade 10 to 12) by giving priority to three aspects, namely communications, performance and accountability. Focus will also be given to the two worst performing districts in the 2017 matric results – Amathole West and Amathole East. A school earmarked for hostel refurbishment by education MEC Mandla Makupula does not exist. In March, Makupula said in his 2017-18 policy budget speech that the hostel at Nomsa Frans High in Cradock would be refurbished under a R1.5-billion budget allocated to infrastructure projects. The upgrades followed an award-winning exposé… October 4, 2017 EASTERN Cape education department will spend more than 80% of its R26.9-billion budget for the 2013-14 financial year on paying its employees. Delivering his policy speech at the Bhisho Legislature, education MEC Mandla Makupula revealed R21.9-billion has been prioritised for employee salaries, while R5-billion will be spent on other budget… March 28, 2013 Thousands of Eastern Cape pupils may have no textbooks next year. The education department, which will consume R29.4-billion of the provincial budget this year, has no money to pay their debts with publishers and not enough cash to buy new books for the 2015-16 academic year. The Daily Dispatch learned… October 16, 2015