Sethu Ntsuntswana, 16, cannot wait to complete her Grade 7 at Bavumele Senior Primary School in the rural hinterlands of Mqanduli this year, so that she can move to a high school with better facilities. Apart from having to study in crumbling mud classrooms, the youngster, together with 184 of her schoolmates, has to share four rundown pit toilets built by the community. But the pit toilets do not have any doors or toilet seats, meaning girls have to be wary of “peeping Toms”. Two other pit latrines, also with no doors, are reserved for male and female teachers respectively. And to make matters worse, snakes have been found coiled inside some of the toilets in the past. “I hold everything in until I get home, which is about 30 minutes away,” Ntsuntswana told the Saturday Dispatch yesterday. “Otherwise if I really have to relieve myself and I can’t go home, I make sure there is someone to accompany me there.” School principal Ngqaleko Mangaliso said they had been trying to get the department of education to build them proper toilets, to no avail. This meant they had to make tough decisions for the pupils. While the older children are allowed to go inside the pit loos, Grade R pupils have to relieve themselves in the open schoolyard. Even then, they are forbidden to do so alone, and are always accompanied by their teacher. “It’s for their own safety,” insisted Mangaliso. Ntsuntswana said she was repulsed at the prospect of going inside the pit toilets because they were filthy. At Amambalu Junior Secondary School about 10 minutes away from Bavumele, 143 pupils share similar pit toilets with their teachers. There are four for boys and four for girls, all with no doors and situated only about 300m from the classrooms. School governing body chairwoman Nocwengile Ntabankulu accused government of failing their children. “We don’t know whether someone has to fall inside and die before anything is done. We have been begging them for new proper toilets but all they do is just give us promise after promise,” said Ntabankulu. Grade 8 pupil Sinalo Mkwedini said as a result, some children just relieved themselves behind classrooms instead of going to the toilets for fear of falling into them. “That place [pit toilets] is very scary and we actually go in there in groups as they are also very dark inside,” a pupil said. — sikhon@dispatch.co.za