A fifth suspect in the slaughter of five Ngcobo policemen and an off-duty soldier appeared in court on Tuesday while a sixth suspect has also been arrested and is due to appear in court today. Both Hawks Eastern Cape spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni and National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesman Luxolo Tyali confirmed that 46-year-old Phumzile Mhlatywa appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. “He was arrested together with the four other suspects who appeared in court on Monday this week,” said Feni. Tyali said the suspect was facing the same charges as the other accused. The case has been postponed to March 8 for a formal bail application. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old man has also been arrested and faces a charge of unlawful possession of a firearm. Feni said the arrest was made on Tuesday night after the man was found in possession one of the pistols stolen when armed men stormed the Ngcobo police station last week. The Daily Dispatch reported last week that about 10 firearms were stolen from the station, among them two assault rifles, six pistols and two shotguns. Following the raid at the controversial church, which resulted in the deaths of the seven suspects, national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole confirmed that almost all guns stolen had been recovered from the church. On Tuesday, the families of the slain police officers – Warrant Officer Zuko Mbini and Constables Zuko Ntsheku, Sibongiseni Sandlana, Nkosiphendule Pongco and Kuhle Mateta and off-duty soldier Corporal Freddy Mpandeni – called on government to make sure that the killers of their loved ones were prosecuted for their crimes. In response, newly-appointed Police Minister Bheki Cele, who attended a highly emotional memorial service, promised that police members would be provided with the “tools of the trade” to enable them to take on violent criminals. He said Section 49 of the Criminal Procedure Act allowed the police to even use deadly force to protect themselves and citizens. — sikhon@dispatch.co.za A fifth suspect in the brutal slaying of five Ngcobo police officers and an off-duty soldier appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Initially 10 suspects had been arrested in connection with the incident following a gunbattle with the police  which left seven suspects dead after a raid at… February 28, 2018 By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI AND LULAMILE FENI Two men believed to be leaders of the Seven Angels Ministries Church which is at the centre of the death of 13 people this past week, have handed themselves over to the Ngcobo police where one of them was arrested on the spot.   Eastern… February 26, 2018 One of the controversial leaders of the Angels Ministry Church in Nyanga village, 31-year-old Phuthumile Mancoba briefly appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate's Court around lunchtime today on murder, robbery, attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm charges. Mancoba is the sixth suspect arrested in connected with the murder of… March 1, 2018