A new era is being ushered in for the tiny village of Tholeni, which became known as the “village of death” after serial killer Bulelani Mabhayi murdered 20 women and children there between 2007 and 2012. Officials from the department of social development arrived at the village yesterday to launch a number of programmes to help rehabilitate the community and honour the victims. Mabhayi, dubbed the “Monster of Tholeni”, is serving 25 life sentences for his crimes. Today, the department will unveil a large tombstone featuring the names of Mabhayi’s victims at a memorial service hosted by the department in their honour. Yesterday, the department opened proceedings in the village, which lies about 15km from Gcuwa along the N2 freeway, with a sports tournament encompassing a number of sporting codes. The aim is to promote healthy lifestyles and engage the youth in constructive, stimulating activities. Philiswa Gubevu, 43 – who was robbed of her mother Ntombomzi, 69, and her 14-year-old daughter Nonelwa in 2009 – said it was a very difficult week for her. “What’s being done here is healthy because before we were known as the ‘village of death’, we were known to excel in sports and our schools were known for their singing. “Now that Mabhayi has been arrested, maybe we can focus on rebuilding our village because for years people were living in fear. “Nobody cared to engage in anything because we knew there was a killer among us,” she said. Gubevu, who lived directly opposite Mabhayi, said she was devastated when she learnt in 2012 that it was her neighbour who had raped and axed her mother and daughter to death. “My mom frequently left him to look after our house when we were away and she got on very well with his aunt. “Mabhayi appeared to be a blessing when he came into our village because he was very handy. “He did piece jobs for everyone as he was highly skilled, doing cementing, plastering and brick-laying among other things.” Gubevu said she had made peace with her grief but said this week was “very painful” for her. “I think it’s the unveiling of the tombstone featuring their names that is painful, it’s like I’ve just learnt of their passing for the first time,” she said. Social development spokesman Mzukisi Solani said the department planned to launch a nutrition development centre that would create four jobs as well as feed the community once a day. “In the new financial year, we’ll launch a R700000 centre, not only to feed people but also encourage a self-sustainable community which will engage in recreational activities, craft-making and vegetable gardening.” Solani said the department had offered counselling to the community over the years through the White Door Centre, which they funded.  