By ZINE GEORGE and NONSINDISO QWABE
ANC member of parliament Fezeka Loliwe, 51, died in a car crash on the R63 near the University of Fort Hare Alice campus soon after 2pm yesterday. The MP, whose constituency is Fort Beaufort, was returning to catch a flight in East London when she overtook a car, and suddenly lost control as she returned to her lane, according to ANC officials on the scene. The Daily Dispatch saw her Jeep Cherokee had left the road where it had travelled over a small bridge and flipped three to four metres below, landing in a muddy, thickly covered river bank. A number of cars of ANC members arrived from the party headquarters, Calata House, and there was a large crowd of onlookers as emergency workers tried to retrieve her body from the car. The SUV’s back window was smashed and all the airbags were inflated inside. Captain Mali Govender, police spokeswoman for the province, said Loliwe was alone in the car. Her ANC colleagues were reluctant to speak to the media. Transport MEC Weziwe Tikana arrived with two elderly men from Lolilwe’s family. A group of ANC women, led by Tikana, held a short vigil of prayer at the scene. ANC provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane and Buffalo City Metro mayor Xola Pakati were among the ANC people gathered around the car. Mabuyane said the party members were shocked. “She was a committed, dedicated member. “I have known her for quite some time,” he said after taking part in the prayer. The former South African Democratic Teachers Union Eastern Cape provincial secretary was chairwoman of the labour portfolio committee when she died. Pakati said he would be going to Loliwe’s Club View home in King William’s Town “to comfort her close relatives”. “This is sad. We have lost one of our own. The best cadre who would always participate in REC discussions with clarity on issues. We will miss her contribution. We send our condolences to her family, friends and relatives,” said Pakati. The office of ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu said Loliwe joined parliament in 2014, serving in various structures. “Her untimely departure leaves a void within structures of the ANC caucus and parliament as a whole. “The people of South Africa have truly been robbed of one of the most dedicated public representatives,” Mthembu said. Raymond Mhlaba municipality council speaker Tozama Njobe was shot six times and killed in Fort Beaufort last night. Eastern Cape provincial police spokeswoman Colonel Sibongile Soci said Njobe was killed at about 22:40 in Fort Beaufort by an unknown suspect. She was killed while sitting in her car. Soci said… July 18, 2017 A RIOT erupted in Duncan Village on Sunday night, allegedly after tensions boiled over at an ANC meeting in Ward 2. Angry residents barricaded a road into the township and stoned passing cars, verbally abused drivers and stole vehicles that were abandoned in the chaos. Duncan Village police spokesman Captain… September 24, 2013 By ZOLILE MENZELWA and THEMBILE SGQOLANA An Eastern Cape ANC branch annual meeting turned violent on Sunday with five members treated for stab wounds while others were hurt after being pelted with rocks. The drama unfolded at the Bonkolo Dam Conference Centre in Komani, where ANC ward 18 branch members… September 12, 2017