The department of education in the Eastern Cape is expected to again get the lion’s share of the provincial budget allocation when finance MEC Sakhumzi Somyo tables the budget speech tomorrow. This is while Amos Mlungwana Primary in Cala has not had a proper classroom and school structure since its formation in 2011. Throughout these years, the education department in the province has continued to get a gargantuan 40% chunk of the provincial fiscus. Education was allocated R32.98-billion of the province’s R74.6-billion basket for the 2017-18 financial year, which draws to a close this month. But this mountain of money means nothing to Amos Mlungwana at Extension 15 in Cala, which for years has been promised it is top of the priority list in the district. The plot earmarked for the new school is still being grazed by livestock. In 2016, when the department returned R530-million of unspent money to national Treasury, it was a bitter pill for Amos Mlungwana and many other schools in the province. In that year, said Mlungwana Primary school governing body chairwoman Nolusapho Magqaza, tired of the empty promises year in and year out, the school took over six unoccupied RDP houses to use as classrooms. But despite the improved surroundings, the school’s 301 children are still cramped in the RDP houses, which were never intended to be classrooms. The department of education, which continues to render school services to Amos Mlungwana Primary such as school nutrition and stationery, has not yet replied to questions e-mailed to them on Friday. But in Extension 15, teaching and learning continues unabated, with children as young as five in Grade R sharing a classroom with the firewood piled up for cooking their food – wood supplied through the government school nutrition programme. One of the rooms in the house accommodating Grade 2 children is used as the staff room, and another room is a storeroom for books and stationery. The safety of their resources after learning hours is not guaranteed as there is no security guard on duty to watch the RDP houses, which are scattered in a 300m radius. Burglars and vandals have been ruthless. Thugs have helped themselves to everything they can lift. Their pillaging has left only one of the six RDP houses electrified. The meter boxes were stolen from the other five classroom homes. The playground at break time is the street. Cars are a hazard. “This very school’s establishment in 2011 was prompted by the fact that our kids were not safe as they were being knocked down by cars having to go to another school far from where we reside,” said Magqaza. “We thought we were doing something in the best interest of our children’s future and safety. “We really hoped that the government was going to intervene. “We have never had a proper school. These abandoned RDP houses are our only option.” DA MPL in Bhisho Sanele Magaqa called the situation a “serious violation of children’s rights”. Human settlements MEC Helen Sauls-August said the department was in discussion with the education department “on how we can formalise this situation”. Said Magqaza: “All we are asking for are proper classrooms. “We have had enough of the department of education sending us from pillar to post with empty promises. “We have a plot ready for the building of a proper school for our kids to learn in proper classrooms like other kids.” — zingisam@dispatch.co.za Cala Senior Secondary School beat several other schools in the country to claim third place in the national Eskom Simama Ranta Entrepreneurship competition recently. Harrismith Senior Secondary School from Free State and Mudimeli High School from Limpopo took first and second positions respectively. The school advanced to the national competition… September 20, 2017 Eastern Cape state departments cannot spend about R1-billion of their budgets and conditional grants before the current financial year ends next week. Of the R1-billion in anticipated under-expenditure, R473.5-million was allocated as conditional grants meant for special projects. The province is now at risk of forfeiting the money to National Treasury.… March 24, 2016 Premier Phumulo Masualle has summoned all his accounting officers and strategic senior managers to a conference, where they will be brainstorming on how to speed up service delivery in the province. Under scrutiny will be the department of Health and Education who get the biggest slice of the provincial government… June 14, 2016