With just weeks before the Democratic Alliance holds its elective congress, the nominations for leadership seem to present an intense battle between Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga and Nelson Mandela Bay’s mayor Athol Trolllip for the position of federal chairman.  This  was when KwaZulu-Natal leader Zwakele Mncwango said he would lobby KZN to vote for Solly Msimanga come April 7. Speaking to DispatchLIVE, Mncwango  said the process of choosing a leader was informed by the kind of leadership they wanted to lead them to 2019. He said although he would be lobbying the entire province to be behind Msimanga, members still had a choice to go for a different candidate. “We believe that the position of the federal executive chairperson, which is currently occupied by James Selfe should remain with Selfe. However, we believe that the position of the federal chairperson should change and that it should be occupied by the Tshwane mayor,” said Mncwango. KZN is the third biggest DA province in the country after Western Cape and Gauteng; the province is bringing 194 delegates to the congress that expects just over 2000 delegates. Trollip confirmed to DispatchLIVE that he would be running for re-election into his current position. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer and Free State chairwoman Annelie Lotriet are also among those said to be considering contesting Trollip. Solly Msimanga‚ the Democratic Alliance's mayor of Tshwane‚ on Wednesday urged the African National Congress to distance itself from a death threat uttered by a man he knew to be affiliated to the ANCYL. The threat was made on a comment threat on the mayor's official Facebook account at about… January 24, 2018 The Democratic Alliance’s Solly Msimanga is officially the mayor of Tshwane. He was elected unopposed during the council meeting that was held in Pretoria today. This marked the end of the reign of the African National Congress in Tshwane. The Democratic Alliance has also won the position of Speaker of… August 19, 2016 No more blue lights in the capital city‚ Tshwane‚ even for President Jacob Zuma‚ newly elected mayor Solly Msimanga said on Friday‚ delivering his inaugural address. “Even when Zuma comes in believe me there will no longer be blue lights. We will ensure that this city has a new feel… August 19, 2016