Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has expressed his “dismay at the wanton disregard of the law” and “injustice” following allegations that members of the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministry in Engcobo were forbidden to have identity documents while children were not allowed to have birth certificates and prohibited from attending school.  He declared that “government will not watch on the sidelines while people’s constitutional rights were being trampled on by those who sought to exploit vulnerable members of the society“. Gigaba announced that the home affairs department had issued a directive to its provincial office to visit the area and to initiate an audit of the church members’ paperwork‚ “with a view to begin the process of documenting them to ensure that they reflect on the National Population Register“. The Constitution states that no citizen may be deprived of citizenship and guarantees the right to a name and a nationality for every child from birth. Gigaba’s office said in a statement: “To this end‚ without a birth certificate‚ any individual’s nationality cannot be affirmed‚ thus rendering them stateless.” “Of particular concern to me‚ is the exploitation of children and women whose rights have been blatantly disregarded by being denied their basic right; their sense of belonging; their birthright to identity‚” said Gigaba. “No individual has the authority to deny any citizen of our Republic their Constitutional right to identity through the imposition of their irrational beliefs.” Finance minister Malusi Gigaba is on Tuesday set to face a grilling in parliament‚ where he has been summoned to explain favours allegedly granted to the Gupta family by government departments. The portfolio committee on home affairs last week proposed that Gigaba appear before it to account for his decision… June 27, 2017 Finance minister Malusi Gigaba was forced to defend both his wife and his economic advisor while he also dished out marital advice in his first appearance before his parliamentary oversight committee. Appearing before the Standing Committee on Finance on Tuesday‚ Gigaba was asked by EFF MP Floyd Shivambu whether his… May 9, 2017 A series of disturbing, violent events connected to the Seven Angels church might reveal clues to the Ngcobo police station massacre. At the root of the narrative are two patriarchs of two religious families – the Mancoba brothers’ father Siphiwo and his former friend Ndumiso Jali. These two men ran… March 3, 2018