An Mbizana schoolgirl’s muti killing trial took a shocking new twist yesterday when an investigating officer claimed that the teen’s aunt had her niece sacrificed for money. This was police evidence delivered in sangoma Olwethu Mbalwa’s application for bail yesterday. Hawks investigating officer Sergeant Tandokazi Jojo-Gwazela told Mthatha magistrate Nombuzo Nqwenani that Mbalwa had told investigators that the aunt of victim Sinoyolo Mgaga, 17, had conspired to have her niece killed. “The deceased’s aunt allegedly approached the accused saying that she was tired of living a poor life. She told the accused that she wants to be rich. [Mbalwa] said that to amass wealth she must sacrifice a family member to make muti from the body parts,’’ said Jojo-Gwazela. A deal was cut between the two when they met in Flagstaff, where the sangoma was selling traditional medicines, the officer testified. “The aunt said she would do everything and that she would have her sister’s daughter made a sacrificial lamb as gateway for her [the aunt] to amass the wealth.’’ Jojo-Gwazela said Sinoyolo, a Grade 10 pupil at AB Tshayingca High, was hacked to death at KwaNikhwe village in Mbizana on October 15 last year. Her mutilated corpse was found with parts removed. Magistrate Nqwenani asked how it was that the sangoma knew where the schoolgirl lived and that she was alone on that fateful night. Jojo-Gwazela said: “The aunt had earlier in the day allegedly showed him the home. On the day she took all the other children to Flagstaff with her and deliberately left Sinoyolo alone. When the accused arrived at the home and slaughtered her, the victim was alone.’’ There were murmurs in the gallery when the investigating officer said the aunt was not arrested. “We held her for questioning but released her after we could not find anything genuinely involving her in the case. The only information we have is what we heard from the accused, otherwise there is no other evidence. We do not willy-nilly arrest people until we have strong evidence,’’ said Jojo-Gwazela. However, under cross-examination she did not rule out the possibility of conviction of the aunt if new evidence surfaced. She said Mbalwa, who had taken part in a march demanding the arrest of the killers of Sinoyolo, was himself arrested in October 27. “He made a confession and also led the police to where he had buried body parts.” Remains were found in a bucket filled with water and in a mayonnaise glass bottle. She said Mbalwa had told the aunt to use the foam and water from the body parts to bathe in and smear on herself to make her rich. The bail application hearing was postponed to March 18. The dead teen’s mother, Nomthunzi Mgaga, was not present in court to hear the allegation implicating her sister in the crime. lThis is fifth reported case of muthi killing or cannibalism since April 2007 in the Mbizana, Flagstaff, Qumbu, Port St Johns and KwaBhaca area. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za The hawks’ investigating officer in the brutal murder of a Mbizana schoolgirl told magistrate Nombuzo Nqwenani yesterday that a murder-accused sangoma had confessed to killing the teenager. Sergeant Tandokazi Jojo-Gwazela said 31-year-old Olwethu Mbalwa of KwaNikhwevillage in Mbizana had initially denied killing Sinoyolo Mgaga, 17, who was gruesomely hacked to… March 1, 2018 “I HAVE a reputation for killing people with muti.” These were the words of a well-known Eastern Cape sangoma as he testified in a Bhisho High Court trial concerning the 2010 murder of a King William’s Town civil servant. Vuyani Sibanda, 42, is accused of conspiring to gun down Nthutuzelo Makeleni… October 29, 2013 Eastern Cape police are investigating allegations that a 15-year-old rape victim was denied medical treatment after police officers refused to send a state vehicle to take her to hospital. The girl, who cannot be named because she is a complainant in a sexual case, was allegedly raped at home by her… September 21, 2015