Athol Trollip’s campaign to remain Nelson Mandela Metro mayor received a major boost at the 11th hour last night after the Patriotic Alliance (PA) resolved to support the Democratic Alliance when the motion of no confidence vote against Trollip is tabled tomorrow. The PA, which has one councillor in the Port Elizabeth-based council, tried to strike a deal with the DA to give its councillor Marlon Daniels the safety and security portfolio in return for its support. However, asked about the quid pro quo late last night, Trollip said: “Sorry I cannot comment on that right now.” Meanwhile the party’s offer of support to the Economic Freedom Fighters on condition that the EFF supports a move to recreate the deputy mayor position in the council went even less well. The deputy mayor position was removed last year following the DA’s controversial decision to fire the United Democratic Movement’s (UDM’s) Mongameli Bobani. Daniels played a critical support role for the DA when it needed votes to remove Bobani. The EFF, which filed the motion of no confidence against Trollip, told Daniels to find other allies as it did not agree to with plans to recreate the deputy mayor position. Tetyana said the EFF could not countenance Daniels’ demand. “The PA seems to have convinced itself that they are king-makers of some sort and as such they are holding everyone to ransom. “That will not fly with us,” said Tetyana. The PA had until 5pm yesterday to make the choice, and PA president Gayton McKenzie confirmed late yesterday that the PA had agreed to vote with the DA. This followed a meeting on Monday between the PA and the DA in which Daniels demanded the DA commit to making him head of the safety and security portfolio in council. The incumbent is the DA’s John Best. Meanwhile, the ANC’s provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi confirmed yesterday that they were having talks with the “black caucus”. Nelson Mandela Bay Metro has a 120-member council, with the DA having the majority of seats – 57. The DA has the support of the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) and the Congress of the People (COPE), which have one seat each. Second to the DA is the ANC with 50 seats, followed by the EFF with six. The UDM has two seats, and the United Front and the AIC one seat each. The “black caucus” comprises all parties not allied with the DA. Ngcukayitobi said the ruling party’s national leaders had agreed last weekend to participate in the “black caucus” meeting, knowing that “the ANC must be humble enough to know that it cannot govern alone in Nelson Mandela Bay as it does not have the mandate to do so”. “Henceforth we are having these negotiations about names. “But most importantly (we are talking) about the necessary conditions that should prevail in order to service the people of Nelson Mandela Bay,” Ngcukayitobi added.