A Cheerful incident in a London park with her beloved grandson prompted East Londoner Kathy Hill to fulfil a long-held desire to write children’s books and she is already on her third in the Gogo series.  Hill, 58, who shares a roomy Quigney townhouse with her mother and a range of whimsical vintage teddy bears who lounge on the couches and armchairs, is a former Cecilia Makiwane radiographer, but now spends many happy mornings with her notepad and coloured pencils in the shady outdoors of Pinecreek Restaurant. “It’s so peaceful and calm there and I enjoy a cup of coffee and a sandwich while I work,” said the Mthatha-born author. Her first book, Gogo and The Upside Down Umbrella was based on a blustery visit to an English park 18 months ago when her grandson Quinn, who lives in London, was a year old. “I was wheeling him in a buggy and my umbrella was blowing inside out and I was struggling to hold onto it and my shopping,” recalled Hill. The incident was filed away in her memory and retrieved when it was time to send Quinn a birthday present for his second birthday. “I wanted to send him something I had written specifically for him. The story is about Gogo and Q being swept away and meeting the rain people who send their family down to earth when it is dry and the sun who brings the rain people back. I illustrated it with about 10 drawings and sent him the ‘book’ on A4 pieces of paper. I had no thought of publishing it at the time.” The charming story was a hit with the little boy. “So I decided to write Gogo and the Runaway Mushroom based on an amusing cooking afternoon with Quinn.” Hill said she came across a UK self-publishing firm online by chance and has not looked back. “Gogo and the Runaway Mushroom came out in January and I am busy with Gogo and the Caterpillar Cake. I also have an idea for a fourth Gogo book.” And, while the stories do not take long to write once Hill has dreamt up an idea, the illustrations, which take the form of charming naïve drawings, take a while longer. Hill’s first book is to be displayed at the London Book Fair next month as well as book fairs in Frankfurt, New York, Beijing and Mexico. ● Gogo and The Upside Down Umbrella and Gogo and the Runaway Mushroom cost R100 each and are available by phoning Kathy Hill at 082-823- 3067. Seventy-two years after a man was buried in an almost forgotten World War 2 graveyard alongside the R72 in East London, his remains were exhumed yesterday to be re-buried in his hometown village of Mazoka near Fort Beaufort. The family’s historical event has been 28 years in the making. Fifteen… October 10, 2015 Drawing on the awkwardness and embarrassments of childhood has been a vital creative ingredient for East London’s very own James Herriot. Veterinarian and children’s book author Nicky Webb, 40, has two published books to her name as well as a string of short stories that have appeared in newspaper supplements… January 30, 2016 When an East London teacher could not find entertaining books to read to her tween pupils, she wrote her own book about an East London boy who relocates to Mars with his family. Former Clarendon Prep drama teacher and Beaconhurst School teacher Lori-Ann Preston, 44, has written a funny, zany… February 24, 2018