While a wheelchair-bound East London man was fighting for his life at Frere Hospital, his wheelchair allegedly disappeared from right next to his bed Rodney Hodgkinson said after suffering from chest pains related to his heart condition, he was admitted to the intensive care unit on February 22. “When I slept that night the wheelchair was next to my bed. But when I woke up in the early hours the next morning, it was gone.” Five days later, when he was discharged, his wheelchair was still nowhere to be seen. Hodgkinson lost all mobility in his legs last year when he developed severe arthritis. He is also battling with a heart condition and kidney failure. He said without his wheelchair, he was unable to get around. “Ill-health has left me permanently wheelchair-bound. I can’t even take two steps. I’d fall over.” Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo and Frere Hospital chief executive Rolene Wagner said while it was unlikely that the wheelchair was stolen, the hospital would investigate the matter. Hodgkinson’s son Anton said the family had tried repeatedly to get the wheelchair back from the hospital but without success. “I’ve been there five or six times already but I can never get assistance,” he said. Anton said a family friend in a similar condition had lent his father a wheelchair temporarily. “My friend wants the chair back and we can’t simply buy another wheelchair. It isn’t exactly the most affordable thing to simply buy again,” Anton said. Hodgkinson said it was the first time he had ever felt let down by the service at the hospital, which had been like his “second home” for years. “I’ve wheeled myself in and out of that hospital before and nothing like this happened. “If this temporary wheelchair goes, I’ll be left with nothing,” Hodgkinson said. Anton said since the wheelchair disappeared, life had been hard for his father and those around him. “We can’t rely on carrying my dad around. We don’t want to fight but we haven’t had any joy over this [from Frere Hospital]. “We just want my dad to get his wheelchair back,” he said. — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za