Standard Bank has agreed to open bank accounts for business practitioners who are controlling seven Gupta companies.  Standard Bank was among the top four banks‚ including Absa‚ Nedbank and FNB‚ which shut down the Gupta family accounts‚ and accounts for persons linked to the family‚ in 2016 over mounting concerns over money laundering allegations. The family has had to make do with facilities with the Bank of Baroda‚ a relationship that has also deteriorated since the bank started to come under pressure from the Reserve Bank over the large number of suspicious transactions the Gupta family were processing. Business rescue practitioner Louis Klopper on confirmed that Standard Bank had agreed to open a new account‚ with strict conditions limiting access only to Klopper and his partner practitioner‚ Kurt Knoop. Klopper said this had been a crucial stumbling block to getting the Gupta companies‚ particularly the four mines owned by the family‚ back up and running. On February 16 the directors of Gupta-owned Tegeta filed for business rescue‚ placing Optimum‚ Koornfontein and Brakfontein coal mines in Mpumalanga as well as Shiva Uranium in the North West under Klopper’s control. Property investment companies Confident Concepts and Islandsite Investments 180 were also placed under business rescue. The mines employ roughly 3‚000 people‚ most of whom went on strike when salaries were not paid on February 25. The permanent staff‚ around 1‚500 people‚ were paid last week. Standard Bank declined to comment‚ citing client confidentiality. -TimesLIVE Standard Bank has denied that it opened accounts for the use of business rescue practitioners running Gupta-owned companies‚ saying its employee did not have permission to conclude any agreement. On Monday‚ business rescue practitioner Louis Klopper confirmed to TimesLive that he had communicated to creditors of the seven Gupta companies… March 6, 2018 UK financial watchdogs are to probe HSBC and Standard Chartered for possible links to the Guptas‚ while the FBI has launched an investigation in the US‚ the Financial Times reported. Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond said he had passed concerns raised by Peter Hain on to the Financial Conduct… October 19, 2017 The Pretoria High Court on Tuesday granted an urgent interim interdict to freeze the R1.75-billion rehabilitation trust funds of the Gupta-owned Optimum and Koornfontein coal mines. The application for the interim interdict‚ which was brought by the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa)‚ was unopposed. The main application will be heard… September 26, 2017