Fourteen people died while scores were injured and treated in a spate of accidents on Eastern Cape roads at the weekend. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo, who said some accidents were caused by fatigue and drunk driving said: He said three men were washed out 300 metres into the sea and were struggling. Four men and a woman from the same group swam out to try and rescue them. NSRI rescue swimmers found some students still clinging to rocks and attempting to assist each other. “NSRI rescue swimmers Jean Roussouw and Steven van den Berg entered the water and were able to assist the casualties from the water,” said Meyer. All the students were rescued. One man was airlifted to hospital and two men and a woman were transported to hospital by ambulance. “They were all in a stable condition and expected to fully recover,” said Meyer. lMeanwhile, Ayabonga Vumazonke, 32, has been sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for murder after he stabbed Asive Msintsi in the chest following an alleged love triangle. Msintsi, 29, and Vumazonke’s girlfriend were enjoying intimacy in NU 3 Mdantsane when Vumazonke entered by kicking down the door. He stabbed Msintsi in the chest and fled the scene in February last year. Msintsi was rushed to hospital by a neighbour but died. Mdantsane Police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said the successful conviction was due to great police work. — mandilakhek@dispatch.co.za A total of 10 people have died in different accidents on Eastern Cape roads today. Dozens were rushed to various hospitals across the province with minor and serious injuries. In the latest accident which happened this evening, three people died when the vehicles they were traveling in collided head-on near… March 3, 2018 Another accident in the province has claimed three lives on the N2 near Hankey this morning. The minibus taxi was traveling from Western Cape to Eastern Cape when it reportedly overturned multiple times. It had 16 people on board. Department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said three people died instantly,… March 3, 2018 ALMOST double last year’s toll were killed on Eastern Cape roads over the Easter weekend – and almost all of them involved alcohol. Last year’s figure of 13 compares with 23 people killed this year, and a further 46 seriously injured. The number includes five pedestrians killed trying to cross… April 22, 2014