By BONGANI FUZILE and SINO MAJANGAZA A number of Pentecostal church leaders in South Africa are well-known for their flamboyant lifestyles where designer clothing, top-of-the range vehicles and upmarket suburban homes feature prominently on their Facebook postings.  The Eastern Cape has its fair share of these. Pastor Jay Israel Senior of Spirit Life Church is one such church leader. At the age of 28 he lives a lifestyle many only dream of – driving cars donated by his congregation, while renting an upmarket townhouse in an affluent part of the East London suburb of Beacon Bay. Last week, he received an Audi Q7 as a gift from one of the families he is leading in the church. This, apparently happened as the Jeep he was driving disappeared from his collection. Other vehicles the Saturday Dispatch understands he drives, or at times he’s chauffeured in, is a white Mercedes-Benz SUV GLE 63d worth more than R2-million. Dispatch could not confirm if this vehicle belongs to him. “You can go onto hisFacebook page, he’s always showing off,” said a church member who remained anonymous. When asked about this, Israel Snr, through his spokeswoman, Tabisa Ralawe, said he would not entertain the Dispatch on stories about his lifestyle. Also, mystery surrounds how the Mancoba sons from the Angels Church Ministry in Ngcobo have acquired their expensive vehicles as they are not working or have any known business Last month, after the police massacre in Ngcobo, when police raided their property, BMWs, Audis and Mercedes- Benzes were seen parked inside the church premises. On his Facebook page, Banele Mancoba, one of the arrested “Seven Angels” posted a picture of him inside what appears to be a Rolls Royce Phantom and a Ferrari. Dispatch understands that one of the vehicles that the Mancoba sons were sitting in belongs to prophet Mndayi Njengele of Dutywa of Wound of Christ-Inxeba lika Yesu church. Mndayi is also known for an expensive taste in vehicles as he has a Ferrari and Bentley. It is also claimed that, popular Shepherd Bhushiri, of Enlightened Gathering Christian Church last year bought her five-year-old daughter a Maserati SUV. Deon Botha, an elder at the East London Spirit & Life Church, which bears a similar name to one run by “miracle” weight-loss pastor Jay Israel, has distanced his church from the controversial house of worship. Botha said many people were getting confused between his church and the Spirit Life… January 18, 2017 By BONGANI FUZILE and SINO MAJANGAZA Thousands of congregants of the Spirit Life Church in East London watched in awe last week as Pastor Jay Israel performed “miracles” when he healed seven people who had been ill, paralysed and wheelchair-bound for many years. However, a Saturday Dispatch investigation has revealed that… March 10, 2018 Pentecostal churches in Buffalo City are blossoming leaving traditional church leaders worried about the future as congregants seem to prefer the new charismatic places of worship. In the past two years more than 20 churches have started in the East London CBD, although the Eastern Cape Council of Churches say… July 4, 2015