A total of 10 people have died in different accidents on Eastern Cape roads today. Dozens were rushed to various hospitals across the province with minor and serious injuries. In the latest accident which happened this evening, three people died when the vehicles they were traveling in collided head-on near Lady Grey on the R58. Department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said “Four others been rushed to hospital with serious injuries.” In the first accident this morning, three people died when a minibus they were traveling in overturned and hit a bus outside Aberdeen. “Eleven people from that accident were rushed to Beaufort West Hospital” said Kupelo. In a second accident, a bakkie with five people on board overturned near Upper Ngqwarha outside Mqanduli killing one person. “Four people were taken to Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital in Mthatha,” said Kupelo.
A few hours later, a minibus taxi traveling from Western Cape to Eastern Cape overturned multiple times. “Three people died instantly and there were entrapments while others were ejected,” Kupelo said. Kupelo said 13 others were injured, 6 of them with minor injuries – those in a critical condition were airlifted to Livingstone hospital in Port Elizabeth. The accident occurred on the N2 road near Hankey. The death toll on Eastern Cape roads has climbed to 319 since the beginning of the festive season, with 240 killed after Christmas. The deaths occurred between December 7 and New Year’s Day. This is an increase of 41 road accident deaths compared with the period from December 1 2015… January 3, 2017 Four people died while two had to be rushed to hospital when the Corsa bakkie they were traveling in overturned on the N2 near Tsolo Junction on Saturday morning. Provincial department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the four people died on the scene and two survivors were rushed to… June 10, 2017 Eight people died while 13 were seriously injured, with at least six airlifted to hospital when two car accidents on the N2 between Mthatha and Dutywa happened within hours of each other on the same spot. Four people died while six had to be airlifted with serious injuries in the… July 11, 2017