By CORBYN ALLAN and BARBARA HOLLANDS Chocolate takes up its temporary status as a food group over the Easter weekend and the pursuit of Easter eggs will be taking centre stage at many of the fun activities lined up around the city this weekend. Before indulging in a feast of chocolate eggs, a bit of outdoorsy exercise on Good Friday will get the weekend off to a healthy start. Crawfords Beach Lodge in Chintsa East will be the start and end of a 10km family fun trail run. Registration takes place on the beach in front of Crawfords at 8am and the R50 optional donation goes to Pet Pals. The run starts at 9am and there will be prizes to runners along the way. Hemingways Mall is setting up an Easter Village which will also feature an Easter egg hunt competition tomorrow morning between 10am and 11am. Centre manager Estee Roos said in order to enter for the free hunt, parents should access the Hemingways Mall Facebook page before 8am today. “Sixty winners aged 12 and under will follow clues to find Easter eggs and prizes like movie tickets, meal and gaming vouchers,” said Roos. Children can have their photographs taken with the Easter Bunny from today to Monday. The Hemingways Easter Village will include an arts and crafts section where little ones can make bunny masks and other Easter-themed wares. “We have an Easter market from Friday to Monday,” said Roos. “We have Easter covered for locals and visitors.” A hunt for Easter eggs is on at the East London Zoo tomorrow at 2pm. Felzoo manager Angeline Wheeler said tickets for the hunt cost R30 per child over and above the admission price to the zoo. Children participating in the egg hunt will search for a variety of zoo animals and be showered with eggs, sweets and chips when they find them. A photogenic Easter Bunny is posing for memory-making photographs at Vincent Park’s dome every day until Monday between 11.30am and 2.30pm, according to general manager Joseph Parsley. In Gonubie, Kings Mall will celebrate the weekend with Easter Bunnies, eggs and an Easter market. Centre manager Sanne-Marie van den Berg said an Easter Bunny would hand out eggs and sweets to children and older shoppers tomorrow between 9am and noon. “We will have an Easter market tomorrow from 9am until 2pm with hand-made crafts with an Easter theme.” Easter is also a great time to get the family out into the fresh air and Avalon Craft and Market at Hillcrest Farm near Kidd’s Beach is incorporating an Easter scavenger hunt into its popular country market. Owner Kim Rennie said the treasure hunt, complete with clues, would start between 10am and 11am and end when all the eggs had been spotted and claimed. Those heading east on Easter Sunday will find the Easter Market at Tea in the Trees which begins at 9am. Live music by three bands, including Kathy Raven, will enhance the holiday atmosphere from 2pm. The serious business of the egg hunt kicks in at 3pm and children will also make crowns at the whimsical Chintsa market. Maren Oppi-Plaas owner Renier Bekker said her Thornpark country venue would host an Easter Monday market between 9am and 3pm. “We are having a 3km Easter fun run/walk and Easter egg hunt, where children and parents can dress up in an Easter theme and walk or run through a farm bush trail looking for eggs.” — barbarah@dispatch.co.za