Students at Walter Sisulu University’s Butterworth campus have this morning joined Mthatha and Buffalo City campuses on a class boycott. In all three campuses, academic activities have been disrupted as students protest over accommodation-related issues. Students at the Mthatha campuses at Nelson Mandela Drive and Zamukulungisa learning sites started boycotting classes last week. Early this week, they were joined by students from the Buffalo City Campus. Yesterday, students at the Butterworth Campus had a mass meeting where they also decided to embark on  protest action. SRC president at the Butterworth campus Siphelo Mkhungazwe said students had a mass meeting on Wednesday and “agreed that enough is enough”. He said students took a decision to shutdown the campus until their demands were met. “All campus operations are suspended, no staff member is expected to come on duty until we are given what we want as general students of Butterworth Campus,” he said. This happens as protest at two other campus of the university are intensifying unabated. Talks between the management of the Buffalo City Campus and the SRC collapsed as no agreement was reached in a meeting that took place until Wednesday evening. Secretary Luvo Quvile said negotiations took “an unexpected turn” as the management did not agree to most of their demands. “Students has made it clear that they will only go to class after their demands have been met. They also clarified that they do not want written down commitments, but implementation of their demands,” he said. It was a cat and a mouse game between police and the WSU’s Buffalo City campus students on the streets of Southernwood on Wednesday  night as the police checked or chased after students who were blocking most streets in the area with fire. Situation remains tense at the Mthatha campus this morning. Police were called on Wednesday after protesting students allegedly set alight a vehicle belonging to a security company that is temporarily hired to safeguard the campus. University spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo told DispatchLive that the university would have to look at alternative measures to protect their property from being vandalised. Hundreds of students front the university’s Ibika campus are demonstrating outside the campus preventing anyone from entering. Walter Sisulu University students have vowed to continue with protest action over next year’s possible fee increases. Students at the Mthatha campuses abandoned classes last week and took to the streets, even blocking traffic on the N2 outside campus. Their protest action led to the postponement of the university’s special… August 23, 2016 In light of a number of rampages that led to property damage and putting the lives of students and staff at stake, the vice-chancellor Professor Rob Midgley decided to close Nelson Mandela Drive (NMD) campus in Mthatha, with immediate effect. ''University management is also considering closing the Butterworth and Buffalo… March 8, 2018 Walter Sisulu University believes it has brokered a deal with protesting students after a two-week stand-off, but students say they will not return to campus until they see action. The Daily Dispatch learned yesterday that students at the Buffalo City and Mthatha campuses will not attend classes until they have… February 22, 2016