Lifeguards at under-resourced Eastern Beach always dread the deluge of about 10000 bathers who usually frequent the most popular beach in Buffalo City Metro at Easter time. BCM lifeguards told Saturday Dispatch there was a critical shortage of manpower and a lack of crucial life-saving equipment at the beach. Two lifeguards appealed to local businesses to sponsor their beach with equipment including a jetski, an inflatable boat or rubber duck, and an oxygen cylinder. The body of a 22-year-old man who drowned near the beach recently was found washed up on Eastern Beach four days later. He was swimming outside the demarcated area and was swept out to sea by a strong current. A lifeguard, who asked not to be named for fear of being victimised, said the bather could have been saved if the beach had a jetski. More than 3000 bathers had flocked to the beach on that day and there had only been two lifeguards on duty. “We need at least 10 lifeguards to be able to control and look after such a large crowd,” said the guard, adding that Eastern Beach attracted up to 6000 bathers on a weekend. The guard said their station also lacked a first-aid room to stabilise patients while waiting for an ambulance, and a proper rescue board to carry people out of the water. The guard said: “We have to swim in order to search for a drowning person and put them on a mellow board because we don’t have a boat. “On a busy weekend with traffic congestion, ambulances can’t get here on time.” BCM spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya said: “We will be announcing our reinforcement plans to meet the demand during the Easter weekend. This is what we always do during the Easter and festive season at all our beaches.” Asked about the critical shortage of rescue and medical equipment, he said the lifeguard building at Eastern Beach had been upgraded and fully refurbished many times, but louts and thieves had repeatedly vandalised the structure and stolen equipment. He said equipment was available but was stored at Orient Beach “where it is safe”. “The conditions at Eastern Beach do not allow for the launching of a jetski due to surf conditions and rocky areas, whereas at other beaches we have such equipment.” There had also been a decrease in drownings as people obeyed the rules to swim in the demarcated areas. — malibongwed@dispatch.co.za