The death toll on Eastern Cape roads has climbed to 21 since the weekend, following another horror smash yesterday which claimed the lives of three people.  They were killed when a Mazda Sting sedan they were travelling in from the Port Alfred direction collided head-on with a Toyota Quantum minibus taxi, said Eastern Cape Department of Transport spokeswoman, Khuselwa Rantjie. The driver of the Quantum was arrested on the spot for driving under the influence of alcohol and reckless and negligent driving, said Rantjie. East London police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala said the suspect was admitted to Frere Hospital with serious injuries. Mqala said the suspect was under police guard in hospital and would be charged for culpable homicide, reckless and negligent driving and driving under the influence of alcohol. She said blood samples taken from the driver showed that he consumed alcohol beyond the legal limit. “He will be arrested once he is discharged and will appear in court.” Rantjie said: “Drinking and driving is one of the main contributing factors to road crashes and we appeal to motorists and road users in general to refrain from this.” Rantjie said all three, including the driver, were in the sedan. Two passengers in the backseat were killed. The smash took place at the deadly R72 at Keiskamma cuttings at 4am. In crashes on Sunday: In crashes on Saturday: The death toll in the Eastern Cape roads has risen to 21 since the weekend following yet another horror smash this morning which claimed the lives of three people. The three victims were killed when a Mazda Sting sedan they were travelling in from the Port Alfred direction, collided head-on… March 5, 2018 A 24-year-old East London taxi driver has been arrested for reckless and negligent driving after he was caught carrying 32 schoolchildren inside a 14-seater Toyota Quantum minibus taxi. There were 34 passengers in total inside the taxi including the driver and his conductor, said Buffalo City Metro spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond.… February 16, 2018 A 24-year-old East London taxi driver has been held for reckless and negligent driving after he was caught carrying 32 school pupils in a 14-seater Toyota Quantum minibus taxi. There were 34 passengers in total inside the taxi including the driver and his conductor, said Buffalo City Metro spokeswoman Bathandwa… February 17, 2018