Imagine if Owen Farrell suffered from a condition where, each month, he had to play through painful stomach cramps, fatigue and dehydration so severe it clouded his decision-making; feelings of light-headedness, dizziness, violent mood swings and bloating. Yet, he still felt he had no option but to stay silent and play on, uncomplaining.  These are the very symptoms that thousands of female athletes experience during menstruation each month, and yet it remains woefully under-discussed – a bizarre situation, given the physical toll it can exert. “I was playing a match once and started to feel faint,” recalled one international sportswoman. “It was like there was lead in my tummy and then the cramping began. Imagine your insides twisting while something is clawing at them. It was so painful, I was starting to lose focus. “I had put in a tampon before but I could feel the warmth between my legs. I knew my period had come. I felt like my body was leaking, and I knew just by the feeling it was heavy. I was worried the tampon would not hold for the amount of time and I was terrified the blood would leak out and people would see.” It is a reflection of the uneasiness which surrounds discussion of menstruation in sport that this sportswoman preferred not to be named for this article – with others declining to discuss the subject at all. High-profile interventions on the issue are certainly rare. Heather Watson cited bad period pains as a major reason for her defeat in the first round of the Australian Open in 2015, an intervention which prompted more athletes – mostly in individual sports such as tennis and athletics – to discuss their experiences. Giselle Mather, director of rugby with Wasps FC Ladies and the first female to become a Rugby Football Union level-four certified coach, believes it remains the last great taboo of women’s sport. “It is just not often spoken about,” she said. “I have 60 athletes on my playing book, plus more who train with us, and they don’t talk to the coaching staff about it. Two have come to me this season and have told me they were off-form because of a really heavy period, but it is very, very rare that they will say that. “Maybe because it is there every month, but do we as females actually acknowledge that it can make a difference to our sporting performance? We are in the habit of just getting on with it. Your period arrives, you go ‘oh, s***!’ and you just get on with it. So, do athletes perceive it to be something that affects their performance? We certainly don’t talk about it as a female squad that often.” The omerta is both curious – given menstruation is such an everyday issue – and potentially damaging. As Fiona Wilson, Associate Professor of Physiotherapy at Trinity College, Dublin, points out, an effect could be talented junior athletes “dropping out of sport due to embarrassment around talking about something like changing a tampon”. It is a point with which the former Ireland flyhalf Nora Stapleton, who retired after the Women’s Rugby World Cup last summer with 50 Test caps as well as two Six Nations titles to her name, can empathise. She managed the symptoms of heavy periods along with a successful international rugby career, but despite consultation with doctors, physiotherapists and nutritionists, it was not until the later stages of her playing days that she alighted on simple solutions such as changes to fluid and carbohydrate intake. This delay was in part due to a lack of research in the area of the impact of menstruation on female athletes. “Eventually, we found out that the two main things your period can cause is dehydration and fatigue.” Craig Robertson, a sports scientist and coach has been part of trailblazing changes to the training programme for female swimmers. Training regimes have been adapted to swimmers’ menstrual cycles, shifting a bigger workload to the start of their cycle, when they are less fatigued, before adjusting to a lower intensity as the swimmer comes towards her period. But while progress is being made on research, albeit slowly, perhaps an easier, and quicker, solution is simply to encourage more open discussion. Imagine if – when suffering from the bloating, cramps and mood swings that hit when it’s that time of the month – you could phone your boss to say you’re taking a “period day” without being reprimanded or facing any repercussions? Zambian women can. Discreetly referred to as Mother’s Day… February 10, 2017 Thembisa was 14 when she started menstruating. Scared of what was happening in her body and too afraid to ask anyone, the teenager stuffed bits of toilet paper and old clothes into her panties and decided to tell no one. The second time it happened she again endured it in silence,… June 22, 2016 What would happen if men menstruated? The question may raise eyebrows as it isn’t biologically possible. But I recently read an article by the American feminist, Gloria Steinem, who asked, what would happen “if suddenly, magically, men could menstruate and women could not”. And she responded, “clearly, menstruation would become… August 24, 2017