DA leader Mmusi Maimane says expropriation of land without compensation is state-sanctioned theft. Maimane‚ addressing a press conference at Constitution Hill on Monday‚ said his party will continue opposing the proposed constitutional amendments to effect expropriation without compensation. “Property rights are the bedrock of development and economic growth. Expropriation without compensation is state-sanctioned theft‚ which is inimical to economic growth and development‚ ” said Maimane. He said his party stood for protection of all individual rights‚ including the right for individuals to own property. “We regard the attempt to amend the constitution as nothing but a populist effort to scapegoat the constitution for the failure of the ANC‚ over twenty years‚ to reform land ownership‚ ” added Maimane. Maimane instead called for a handing-out of more title deeds to beneficiaries of RDP houses. “We reject the hate-filled racist undertones employed by the EFF and the ANC in this debate‚ which seeks to divide the country according to race for narrow political ends‚ and which seeks to deligitimise those who disagree‚” said Maimane. Government's plans to expropriate land without compensation has pitted the EFF and the DA against each other in parliament‚ threatening an alliance pact at municipal level. The divisions between the two parties emerged on Monday morning during the parliamentary debate on President Cyril Ramaphosa's state of the nation address‚ which… February 19, 2018 Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane has described President Cyril Ramaphosa’s first state of the nation address as a mere continuation of the era of his predecessor‚ Jacob Zuma. “Beyond the fine words of renewal and newfound unity‚ he unfortunately did not fulfil the expectations of the public with a clean… February 17, 2018 The marriage of convenience between the Economic Freedom Fighters and the Democratic Alliance in three of the country's biggest municipalities looks on the verge of collapse. Forged after the local government election in August 2016‚ the two parties teamed up to remove the ANC from power in the Nelson Mandela… February 28, 2018