While government’s free antiretroviral drugs has helped hundreds of thousands of people living with HIV/Aids better manage the disease, some started the treatment while their CD4 count was too low. This results in patients sometimes being too sick to visit clinics to get their life-saving medication. But Nceduluntu Support Group, a non-profit organisation that cares for people with chronic illnesses in Ndevana near King William’s Town, is doing its bit to help those who are too weak to care for themselves. The organisation’s main focus is assisting HIV/Aids patients who are at an advanced stage of the disease with a very low CD4 count. They also extend their helping hand to other bedridden patients, such as those who have experienced a stroke or other disability by washing and feeding them. The 10 untrained caregivers also collect medication for some of the 100 patients who cannot go to the clinic on their own and ensure that they take their medication. They offer their services from Monday to Friday and dedicate Saturdays to working on their vegetable garden, which they use to provide fresh vegetables to the patients. The clinic supplies them with safety kits like gloves and masks. The do-gooders also had a soup kitchen for the Ndevana clinic patients, where they offered meals while they wait in the long queues. However, they stopped offering the meals because of a lack of funding as they have only been getting support from a local spaza shop. Project manager Aaron Linganiso, who has been with the organisation since it was established in 2015, is hopeful that they will be able to bring back the soup kitchen soon. “The soup kitchen helped a lot of people and we wish to have it again. Sometimes we even had to take money out of our pockets. “As much as we are helping others we also need help. For instance, we no longer have the soup kitchen but it is something that is needed, because for others that was the only meal they would have a day,” he said. The support group works from a four-roomed house on the premises of the clinic. Nomthandazo Ngcawe, a committed caregiver who has served the organisation from the beginning, is determined to help regardless of the lack of training in primary healthcare. “We visit our patients every day and find out what they need from us. Sometimes we end up doing their washing if maybe they cannot do it themselves. “We cook for the others or wash them depending on what they need, because some are all alone. “I love what I do even though I don’t get paid for it. It is my passion. I wanted to be a nurse or a social worker, but unfortunately that never worked out. I love helping people,” she said. Siphokazi Lawana, a 26-year-old who was diagnosed with HIV/Aids in 2013, is one of the many who have been helped by the support group. Lawana has given the Daily Dispatch permission to publish her name. “Nceduluntu helped me a lot with accepting my status. They used to bring me vegetables and my treatment from the clinic and encourage me to take it. Now I am fine and I can collect it myself. They were there for me since March last year. They would visit me twice a week,” she said. A 47-year-old man, who was bedridden but is slowly recovering, also received help from the group while his wife worked in town as a hawker. “They would arrive at 8am to check if I have taken my medication and bring my treatment monthly from the clinic. Now that I am well I would like to go and help volunteer, even if it is with the garden.” — lisekhom@dispatch.co.za