As a result, the school’s matric pass rate has improved from 68% in 2001 to 94% last year. In 2014, the school scored a 100% matric pass rate. Thomas said the average attendance at the Saturday classes was 95%, and the school was one of the top 18 performing schools in the region. “Seeing the progress over the years is motivating. The ideas that I receive from the teachers and pupils to uplift the school are amazing. “My teachers sacrifice time with their families for the success of education. I give all my credit to the teachers,” Thomas said. The 52-year-old pays R175 per hour per teacher for the Saturday classes. “I am blessed with a committed team who also want to provide the pupils with quality education. “They are a blessing, it is such a wonderful thing to work with people who understand your vision and work hard towards making it successful,” he said. The school has been offering Saturday classes for 13 years. But it hasn’t always been smooth sailing. “Sometimes we wouldn’t have money to pay the teachers and I would have to borrow money from my wife when she was still working at the department of education. My teachers have never been unpaid,” Thomas said. Over and above the Saturday classes, 20 pupils from grades 11 and 12 are selected to attend an academy camp for three days at Lekkeroord Christian Campsite near the East London Airport in June. The camp is aimed at teaching pupils leadership and other skills, through team-building and other exercises. The four-year-old camp costs about R40000, normally funded by Thomas’s family from overseas. “My nieces, nephews and brothers contribute towards the camp. “They are all over the world but because they know the importance of education, they throw in dollars to assist with the camp so it can be a success,” Thomas said. Grade 12 pupil Omila Toto, 17, who attended the camp last year and attends Saturday classes, said both were very helpful. “I find the classes to be very helpful. Some at home cannot study  they are distracted by a lot of things and friends. “Saturdays are also extra time to ask questions we couldn’t ask during the week because of time,” she said. English teacher Braidzo Rodze described Thomas as selfless and a hands-on leader. “Besides being our employer, he mentors and grooms us to attain our best and be the best. “He has an open-door policy for pupils too. Mr Thomas motivates and encourages them and gets involved with the parents in the best interest of the pupils,” she said. — lisekhom@dispatch.co.za