Despite some “continued isolated disruptions” in a handful of areas‚ most incidents which affected voter registration operations on Saturday had been resolved and almost all voting stations were operational on Sunday‚ the Electoral Commission said.  Voting stations opened at 8am for the final day of the weekend registration drive and address update campaign which are part of early preparations for the national and provincial elections scheduled for 2019. On Saturday‚ the process was marred by community protests in some areas‚ where tents erected as temporary voting stations were torched or damaged. One tent was even stolen. The Electoral Commission urged all eligible voters and especially the youth of our country to visit voting stations in their numbers on Sunday to ensure they are able to fulfil their Constitutional right to vote in the upcoming elections. “The Electoral Commission would like to express its appreciation to community leaders‚ political leaders and traditional leaders as well as the community members themselves for their assistance and support in ensuring voter registration activities could continue in almost all areas today. “The Electoral Commission would also like to express its thanks to the security agencies including the South African Police Service and various municipal police departments for their assistance in ensuring the safety and security of voters and our staff over the weekend‚” the commission said in a statement. Voting stations are open until 5pm on Sunday. – TimesLIVE Apart from a few isolated incidents‚ which included protests at some voting stations‚ the voter registration and address update campaign got off to a positive start on Saturday morning‚ the Electoral Commission (IEC) says. It said that almost all voting stations around the country were reported open and operational from… March 10, 2018 The Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) has said most of the new voter registrations during its first registration weekend were young people. It said that of its new registrations, 78.6% were under 30. "This means that there has been a significant response by young persons to the call to… March 8, 2016 Today and tomorrow are the final days for millions of eligible voters to register and update their address details – or they will not be able to vote in the local elections. President Jacob Zuma ann-ounced this week that August 3 will be the municipal election day. There are 22617… April 9, 2016