SUCCESSFUL East London husband and wife team Bafana and Pumza Gcanga have just expanded their Abbotsford Motor City with another offering to ease the traveller’s journey to Transkei, KwaZulu-Natal and even the Free State and Gauteng. This time the offering comes in the form of an exclusive Supa Quick tyre fitment and wheel alignment specialist centre. As with every venture they enter into, Bafana and Pumza haven’t skimped on the equipment and skills needed to provide the best service to an increasingly demanding customer base. With modern vehicles almost completely devoid of Noise, Vibration and Harshness (NVH), any imperfection in tyre construction, or indeed any ‘pinch’ caused by the all too frequent encounter with a pot-hole, can upset this world of refined comfort that drivers expect. For the first time East Londoners now have the opportunity to have tyre and wheel problems accurately analysed for what is known in the trade as ‘road force’ but is more accurately defined as Radial Force Variation (RFV). RFV can best be explained as follows: With a perfectly uniform tyre mounted on a perfectly round wheel loaded with a constant force against a perfectly round test wheel, the rotating tyre carcass undergoes repeated, but uniform, deformation and recovery as it enters and exits the contact area. Measuring the radial force between the tyre and the wheel there will be zero force variation as the tyre turns. However on a typical production tyre a radial force variation will be measured as the tyre turns. This variation is mainly as a result of: To control this, tyre manufacturers assess their products during manufacture to verify that the RFV is within allowable quality limits. The difference between road force and traditional wheel balancing equipment is that the road force equipment actually measures the radial force the wheel assembly exerts on the road, thereby detecting not only a weight imbalance but uneven tyre construction or even damage. This “smart” balancer can also suggest where to fit each wheel to optimise NVH and ride comfort. While owners of refined, luxury vehicles now have the possibility of diagnosing previously hard to define and resolve vibration and noise problems, the Abottsford Supa Quick centre also caters for vehicles that are less sensitive to road input with state-of-the-art American tyre balancing equipment. To ensure owners get the maximum mileage out of their vehicles’ tyres it’s important that wheel alignment is regularly adjusted to the manufacturer’s standards. This is important as the casual brush against a curb, or encounter with a pothole can throw the alignment out of specification which not only upsets the directional performance of the car but also leads to uneven tyre wear. Focusing on the demands of customers and their complex vehicles, the Abbotsford Supa Quick tyre and wheel alignment centre also has best-in-class alignment equipment that conforms to most Original Equipment Manufacturers’ standards. On the modern motor vehicle, wheel alignment doesn’t only affect the vehicle’s ability to maintain a trajectory without the driver having to continually correct the steering – on vehicles equipped with Advanced Driver Assist Systems (ADAS), in addition to a mechanical alignment, manufacturer’s specifications often require a Safety System Alignment. To achieve this, the aligner “links” to the vehicle On Board Diagnostics system to align safety system related sensors to the vehicle’s alignment geometry – on older, less sophisticated equipment, failure to do this may result in the warning light illuminating or even having the system shut down or reset. With all this sophistication, it would be reasonable to expect the process to be time-consuming, but the equipment, operated by well-trained technicians, significantly reduces the time to capture the measurements. Once the vehicle has been set up the equipment records the settings in under 90 seconds. And finally, with the tyres correctly balanced and all four wheels tracking correctly Bafana’s team can simultaneously fill all four tyres with Nitrogen to reduce tyre temperature fluctuation. This contributes significantly to handling while also extending tyre life. Professional and friendly service and state-of-the-art equipment will no doubt make this new Supa Quick tyre and wheel alignment centre in Abottsford a household name in the months to come. CONTACT DETAILS
Tel: 043 721 1155
Address: 10 Morris Road, Abbotsford, East London
E-mail: abbotsford@supaquick.co.za