Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services has confirmed that it will meet the Public Protector‚ Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane‚ on Tuesday‚ 6 March‚ for her “to explain public statements she has made in recent weeks“.  Committee chairperson Dr Mathole Motshekga said the meeting was initially set down for early last month‚ but due to changes in the committee programme the meeting had to be postponed. Furthermore‚ the committee realised that the PP’s report on the Vrede Dairy Farm in the Free State had not been sent to Parliament at that stage. “I have since been inundated with calls as to when the committee will deal with this matter. The committee can finally confirm that the meeting has been set down for 06 March 2018 to engage Adv Mkhwebane on these matters. We take such matters seriously and we are aware of the great public interest in the matter‚” he said in a statement. Motshekga had said earlier that the committee is extremely concerned with these comments and needs clarity. Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services has summoned Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane after reports that she had ignored evidence that implicated Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane. The Sunday Times reported this week that Mkhwebane had been accused of suppressing evidence pointing at Zwane in her report on the… February 12, 2018 The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has asked the full bench of the High Court in Pretoria to declare that Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane breached the constitution‚ because she failed to act impartially and independently in her investigation into the Absa/Bankorp “lifeboat” saga. Of concern to the country’s central bank… December 5, 2017 The Democratic Alliance wants Parliament to remove Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane for alleged incompetence and misconduct. DA spokesperson for justice and constitutional development Glynnis Breytenbach said on Sunday the party had written to the Speaker of the National Assembly‚ Baleka Mbete‚ requesting that she expedite the process to remove Mkhwebane… February 18, 2018