Two guns used to kill two police members whose bodies were found near Nyanga High School had been robbed from police officers in Butterworth and Cala.  After they were shot and killed, the gunmen then took their police vehicle and drove about 6km to the Ngcobo police station where they shot and killed three more officers. This was a revelation made by accused number two Kwanele Ndlwana, 22, during the bail hearing of four of the six suspects arrested in connection with the massacre of five Ngcobo police members and an off-duty soldier recently. Ndlwana together with his five co-accused Andani Monco, Siphosomzi Tshefu, Siphesihle Tatsi, Phumzile Mhlatywa and Phuthumile Mancoba, appeared in court this morning for a bail hearing. However, Monco insisted that he did not want bail while Mancoba’s Legal Aid representative told the court that he was tied up in the regional court and asked for the hearing of his client to be moved to March 19. Ndlwana, was the first to take the  stand to be cross-examined by senior state prosecutor Nomapha Mvandaba. He explained that the guns used to shoot the first two officers had been taken in Cala and Butterworth from police officers. After the two were killed, another gun was taken from them. Tshefu, Tatsi and Mhlatywa are expected to take to the stand to try and convince the court why they should be granted bail after lunchtime. Guns used in the murder of five Ngcobo policemen were stolen from police officers in Butterworth and Cala. This shocking admission was made in court by two multiple murder and robbery accused, – Kwanele Ndlwana, 22, and Siphosomzi Tshefu, 23 – at their formal bail applications in the Ngcobo Magistrate’s… March 9, 2018 By BONGANI FUZILE and SIKHO NTSHOBANE One more of the “Seven Angels” has appeared in court following the recent attack on the Ngcobo Police Station. Banele Mancoba, 30, the second leading member of the Angels Ministry Church to come to court, appeared before Ngcobo magistrate Nozuko Mviko alongside co-accused Siphenathi… March 6, 2018 The third member of the notorious Mancoba brothers who run the controversial Angels Ministry Church in Ngcobo appeared in court yesterday on charges conspiracy to commit robbery with aggravating circumstances. Ephraim Mancoba, 22, joined his elder siblings Banele Mancoba, 30, and Phuthumile Mancoba, 31, who have already appeared in the… March 7, 2018