A Mthatha community is mourning a much-loved elder – a woman of 78, a budding communal farmer and pillar of the community who was found murdered in her home at the weekend. Nodambile Nomhlophe Zonele of Nkalane was found dead, with her upper body covered in stab wounds, on Friday afternoon in her Qunu village home not far from the Nelson Mandela compound. “It is believed that the deceased, who lived alone, was last seen on Wednesday. She was found lying on her bed in a pool of blood by a neighbour, who saw a dead goat near her gate, and when knocking at her door to alert her, got no response. He raised the alarm to other neighbours who decided to push open the half-closed door,” said police spokeswoman Captain Dineo Koena. A murder case has been opened and no arrest has been made. Anyone with information may contact Crime Stop Line on 08600 10111 or their nearest police station. “We condemn the senseless killing of our elderly women. We will leave no stone unturned to bring to book those that are terrorising them,” said acting cluster commander Brigadier Nomawethu Makonza. When the Daily Dispatch visited the bereaved family on Saturday, community members were still there demanding the speedy arrest of those who killed the woman who was described as a people’s person, community builder, pillar of the community and passionate small farmer. She farmed livestock and planted mielies and vegetables in her gardens. Family spokesman Vuyisile Ngqalo, who is also her nephew, said not only the family but the entire village was devastated. “Everyone is asking who killed my aunt, a lady loved by all in the village. People are shocked and angry over the brutal murder. She had multiple stab wounds on her chest, hands, ribs. She was stabbed everywhere, even on the throat. What an evil coward to kill a helpless innocent woman like that,” said a distraught Ngqalo. Zonele was alone when attacked as her daughter, her only child, works in Johannesburg. Community leader and neighbour Mlandeli Nxalo said the slaying had left the village devastated. “Women, especially those who live alone, are now scared, not knowing when the killer will strike again. They will only be safe when the police pounce on this killer. We all wish that there is a speedy arrest and that the killer be jailed for life,” said Nxalo. “The trio were chased and caught by the police, who recovered robbed items from them. All three will now appear before the Ngqamakhwe Magistrate’s Court on Monday,” said police spokesman Captain Jackson Manatha.