Another Mancoba brother, who was arrested on a charge of conspiring to rob a fuel depot in Ngcobo, has abandoned his bail application. Ephraim Mancoba, 22, appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday for a hearing of his bail application. However, he told the court he had decided to abandon bail altogether, according to Eastern Cape Hawks spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni. Mancoba was arrested earlier this month on charges of conspiring to rob a diesel depot last year. He is among 13 members of the controversial Angels Ministry Church run by the so-called Seven Angels in Nyanga village who were arrested following the gunning down of five Ngcobo police officers and an off-duty soldier last month. Mancoba’s older sibling Banele, 30, along with church members Siphenathi Mafikwana, Lwandiso Phoswa, Zuko Makepula, Thulani Mrwetyana, Loyiso Buhlungu, Nyameko Mhleli Gemi, Anelani Nobethe, and Luxolo Sixolo, all in their 20s, as well as Mawande Jijingubo, 35, all face charges of conspiracy to commit robbery with aggravating circumstances. Jijingubo appeared in court on March 15. A 13th suspect in the case, 23-year-old Zamile Nkanunu, also appeared in court with Mancoba on Wednesday. Feni told the Dispatch that the pair had abandoned their bail application, just like the other suspects. “He [Nkanunu] was arrested in Cape Town earlier this week,” she said. “All the suspects have abandoned bail and remain in custody. “ “They will appear before the Ngcobo Magistrate’s Court on April 30.” The Dispatch has previously reported that another Mancoba sibling, 31-year-old Phuthumile Mancoba, was arrested with five other church members – Andani Monco, 30, Siphosomzi Thefu, 24, Kwanele Ndlwana, 22, Siphesihle Tatsi, 20, and Phumzile Mhlatywa, 46 – in connection with the slain officers. They face five counts of murder, two of robbery with aggravating circumstances and one each of attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm. Three other Mancoba brothers – Thandazile, Philile and Xolile – were among seven people killed during a shootout when police raided the Mancoba compound which houses the church last month. This was within hours of police receiving information that the suspects behind the Ngcobo police station massacre were hiding inside the church. — sikhon@dispatch.co.za