A lack of land ownership for black emerging entrepreneurs was highlighted as among the barriers to entry into the biodiversity sector at an indaba hosted by the national department of environmental affairs in East London yesterday.  The national Biodiversity Economic Indaba, which concludes this morning, is focused on sharing information to empower, develop and upskill small, medium and micro enterprises. With the topic, “Looking beyond the 70%-80% of small businesses failure within the first five years”, state funding agencies, including Small Enterprise Development Agencies and the Eastern Cape Development Corporation, shared criteria and prerequisites of what it took to acquire funding to develop SMMEs in the wildlife and bioprospecting industries. Mazoya Group representative Thobelani Mhinana said the workshops had given her insight into the opportunities available in the sector and the funding available to aspiring businesses. “There are many challenges in the first few years of a business, but it takes a lot of determination and willpower to get it going. You have this vision of what you want to achieve, but sometimes you don’t know which doors to knock on for guidance, which can be discouraging. “So research and information are key to building a business and knowing your market. “The industry is so broad and we, as young black women, have a lot of opportunities and there seems to be a lot of structures in place to support emerging businesses, and for me, as a selfsustainable businesswoman, it was interesting to hear of some of the challenges and highlights of other said. MEC for economic development, tourism and environmental affairs Sakhumzi Somyo said the biggest hindrance for black businesses was the issue of land ownership. “The industry of biodiversity is not new to black people, it has always been there because they have always used traditional medicine and created products made out of natural resources but the difference is they have been limited to land, which is either owned by the state or white-owned. “With the fast-tracking of the expropriation of land without compensation, we can expect more black people owning nature conservancies and breaking into the broad biodiversity industry.” Somyo said they had already ventured into a programme whereby the department had sponsored several black entrepreneurs to the title deeds of land to boost their business in game farming, to give them a head start.