With local retirement institutions like Kennersley Park Old Age Home having a waiting list of up to 10 years, a proposed new development – Riverbend Retirement Village – could help fill a gap in the market. Laurette Schaffer, general manager at Kennersley Park, said that whenever their waiting list opened to applications it was filled within two hours. It currently has 130 prospective residents on it. “We have 152 cottages with 184 residents in them. We do allow couples,” said Schaffer, adding that the cottages allowed residents to live a relatively independent life, much like a townhouse complex but with more amenities. The multimillion-rand Riverbend Retirement Village Development is to be constructed along the East Coast Resorts Road, just over 14km from the East London city centre. The 5.8 hectare property will feature 102 individual units and 18 “assisted living” units. Russell Boucher, an architectural professional from Pursey and Boucher architectural services, said the Kaysers Beach Trust, which has proposed the construction, is made up of “[Two] local influential business men whose names at this point are confidential”. Boucher said in addition to the living units, the development would include offices, communal facilities, workshops and hobby areas. He said the units would come in different single-story sizes comprising a one-bedroom at 90sqm, a two-bedroom at 110sqm and a three-bedroom at 140sqm. “All water and sewage infrastructure will be linked to existing BCM lines at Meisies Halt and Gonubie, with electricity supplied by Eskom.” At an Environment Impact Assessment meeting held in Beacon Bay last week, he emphasised that the surrounding natural environment would be “strictly considered, conserved and even incorporated into the development where possible,” and that security was being “considered in a very serious light” with his client “engaging with experts in this regard as they have done with all items of concern”. Boucher added that the infrastructure construction is planned for January, and building construction is planned to commence during July 2019. Two Kennersley Park roommates tucked into a huge pink cake yesterday to celebrate their combined lifetime of 209 years. Muriel Lack turned 105 yesterday, while her roomie Corrie Gwilt will be commemorating her 104th birthday on May 19. The beaming centenarians were treated to a special morning tea party at… May 5, 2015 A long-neglected botanical garden alongside Kennersley Park retirement village is finally being cleared by municipal workers, but residents say they are still afraid to use it because it is a haven for the homeless. Last week the Dispatch highlighted the problems that had befallen the park, which spans the length… January 26, 2016 Senior citizens residing in the Quigney’s Langham House old age home are slowly being relocated to other accommodations ahead of the frail care’s closure in December 2019. Prohibitive maintenance bills to keep the 1904 building in good shape and the escalating costs of 24-hour frail care have led to the… December 18, 2017