Former Miss Eastern Cape Thandokazi Mfundisi is one of three regional qualifiers for the Miss SA 2018 title. The 24-year-old was named one of the qualifiers in Port Elizabeth on the weekend after a gruelling session of auditions. The other two, Tegan Goldman and Danielle de Jager, are both based in Port Elizabeth. The Mdantsane-born beauty queen said it has always been her dream to enter the prestigious pageant. “I’ve been entering pageants all my life preparing myself for this moment. This has been the ultimate goal, entering Miss SA,” she said. Mfundisi was crowned Miss Eastern Cape-Beauty with a Purpose in 2016 and went on to do talks encouraging youths across the province. Even though she has been working towards qualifying for Miss SA, Mfundisi said it still had not sunk in that she was one of three Eastern Cape qualifiers. “It’s been overwhelming. I still cannot believe it. All the girls that were there had something to offer and I could see they have been working hard for this,” she said, adding that she was humbled by the love and support she has been getting on social media. “This is really exciting for me.” Auditions have been hosted in the Eastern Cape and Durban, where a total of seven qualifiers have been selected. The Miss SA team is scheduled to host regional auditions in Cape Town and Johannesburg to make up the 35 qualifiers. In April, the qualifying young women will meet and the top 12 are scheduled to be announced. Mfundisi said: “Making it to the top 12 would mean so much for someone like me who grew up in Mdantsane. There is a lot of hopelessness in our communities and I want to be that beacon of hope to my peers. I want them to see that we should never allow our circumstances to determine where we go in life. One needs to focus, stay empowered and be a motivation to others.” In the run-up to April, Mfundisi said she would be equipping herself with all the necessary skills needed for the pageant. “I am keeping myself updated on current affairs, reading to improve my vocabulary and taking good care of myself,” she said. East London beauties Thandokazi Mfundisi and Uyathandwa Ndika came out tops at the Miss Eastern Cape – Beauty with a Purpose pageant on Sunday. Mfundisi, a law student at the University of Fort Hare, was crowned Miss EC and Ndika took the throne of Miss EC Teen for 2016. The… December 13, 2016 A confusion over prizes for the Miss Eastern Cape “Beauty with a Purpose” programme has led to its current title-holder, Thandokazi Mfundisi, accusing the organisers of not being transparent. The programme, which will host its auditions for the 2017-18 Miss Eastern Cape later this month was founded by East London… August 17, 2017 Eastern Cape beauty queen Thandokazi Mfundisi was crowned the face of a popular cosmetics brand at the annual Miss Face of Signature 2017-2018, which took place in Gauteng this past weekend. Niche retailer of cosmetics and toiletry products, with a chain of 110 stores throughout southern Africa, Signature Cosmetics invites… December 5, 2017