The battle for the soul of the ANC in the Eastern Cape is far from over, with two ANC groupings operating parallel to each other to defend their factions.  The state of paralysis came into the spotlight this week when one faction called for the provincial executive committee (PEC) to be declared “illegitimate”. The current leadership was elected at the chaotic chair-throwing conference last year. Yesterday, the other faction countered this by coming to the defence of the PEC and calling for the dissolution of four of the governing party’s eight regional executive committees (RECs). At the centre of the latest stalemate between the warring ANC factions is the leaked Sbu Ndebele task team report. Ndebele and three others were tasked by the pre-Nasrec national executive committee (NEC) to investigate the appeal as lodged by the pro-Phumulo Masualle group. The Dispatch reported recently that Ndebele’s report had recommended that the incumbent PEC be dissolved and that another conference be convened within three months. Masualle’s supporters marched to the ANC provincial headquarters, Calata House on Monday, demanding that the PEC step down. At the same time as the march, former PEC members including Andile Lungisa, Mlibo Qoboshiyane, Nancy Sihlwayi and Thandiswa Marawu, among others, were meeting with the ANC’s top six officials to enquire about the Ndebele report. Mabuyane’s supporters had planned their own march on Thursday, but called it off after he called for calm. “We appeal to all members and supporters of the ANC to exercise restraint, refrain from such acts as it borders on ill-discipline. Let’s have trust, confidence in the constitutional structures and leadership we have because it is the leadership we deserve,” he wrote on Facebook. His supporters, led by Viwe Sidali, yesterday said they understood the provincial chair’s appeal as “a call to cease fire”. But Sidali said they were demanding that the PEC dissolve the RECs of Amathole, Nelson Mandela Bay, Joe Gqabi and Dr WB Rubusana “for sowing divisions in the ANC ranks in the province”. — zingisam @dispatch.co.za