Lundi Kama has planted 1 700 apple trees and three hectares of wine grapes since 2015 in Gubengxa Valley between Khowa [formerly Elliot] and Ugie.  His project, which is the first of its kind in the Eastern Cape, has been likened to the renowned Ceres in the Western Cape. And now he will be able to plant more and harvest at an efficient pace as he was one of farmers to receive tractors and implements from the department of rural development and land reform (DRDLR) last week. In total, the department donated 47 tractors to different agricultural schemes across the province. The tractors with implements will be used for grain farming, citrus and other agricultural productions. This is a welcome development as more jobs are expected to be created. Kama, who started farming in 2015, heaped praise on the government. “My project today is a success thanks to the support I got from this department. We are always complaining but when you are happy with the support you get, one should be proud and work hard to feed the people and that is what we are doing at unknown Gubengxa Valley,” said Kama, who project received three tractors. DRDLR Eastern Cape chief director Zukile Pityi said Kama’s project was the first of its kind in the province. “In the Chris Hani district, grain and vegetables is mainly planted but there’s a special apple plantation in the Gubengxa Valley. Such initiatives need our support,” he said. In Peddie, Lulama Mtya of Peddie South Pineapple Co-operative said they were grateful for the three tractors and implements they received. He said implements were expensive and in most instances, only established farmers could afford them. “These are the farms that used to produce tons of pineapples and employ more than 1 000 people. “With this support we will go back to that time and make sure we employ locals,” said Mtya. “Also, what is important is the training of the youth to become skilled as they are the next generation to run these pineapple farms.” Pityi said the tractors would go a long way in assisting the beneficiaries. In January, the department donated 11 tractors to nine co-operatives in the province. “We need to empower people to produce and we do that as we are working hand in hand with the municipalities,” said Pityi. To date: ● Chris Hani district received 10 tractors; ● Amathole received 10; ● OR Tambo received nine; ● Sarah Baartman received eight; ● Alfred Nzo received six; and ● Joe Gqabi District received four tractors. “Mnquma local municipality will receive two tractors and Zanyokwe Irrigation Scheme in Keiskammahoek will receive three tractors with full implements. “Peddie will get three tractors and this will go to pineapple growers,” said Pityi, adding that 20 villages in Peddie would benefit. In Alfred Nzo and OR Tambo districts the tractors will be shared among seven projects. “In the two districts grain is mostly planted and the communities will receive 15 tractors altogether,” he said. On job creation, Pityi said a number of people will benefit. “We will train a number of people to operate these tractors and implements and this will help in making sure that they don’t break and be costly to fix. “Fortunately the co-operatives have been tasked to identify individuals with drivers licences to be trained by the department,” he said. Also, each project will receive a year’s diesel supply from the department. “We will monitor the projects and support them with fuel for a year.”