Eastern Pondoland Regent-Queen MaSobhuza Lombekiso Sigcau says Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was source of comfort for her.  Claiming her as one of their own‚ Sigcau said: “MamWinnie was related of the Faku Royal House and the AmaMpondo Royal Family through the ooNgutyana clan‚ of amaMpondo. She provided encouragement to us throughout the disputes of rightful succession. The fire that burned within her was a warmth to our souls. Her relationship to myself and my family was a constant source of comfort and resilience.” “On my behalf and on behalf of the entire nation of AmaMpondo‚ we express our heartfelt condolences to the immediate family‚ friends and the movement at large. She fought a good fight and‚ now that the war is over‚ it is time for the courageous soldier to go home.” The leadership battle is before the Constitutional Court‚ which in February heard arguments about the leadership battle‚ with lawyers for the minister of co-operative governance and traditional affairs and the president of the country opposing Wezizwe Feziwe Sigcau’s bid to become queen. Wezizwe’s family want a review of the 2010 Nhlapo Commission decision‚ which stated that Zanozuko Tyelovuyo Sigcau was the king of amaMpondo aseQaukeni. Wezizwe is the daughter of the late amaMpondo aseQaukeni paramount chief‚ Mpondombini Justice Sigcau‚ who was removed as king by the decision of the commission in 2010. The commission‚ formally known as the Commission on Traditional Leadership Disputes and Claims‚ replaced him with King Zanozuko Sigcau. Following the decision‚ Mpondombini Sigcau challenged then president Jacob Zuma’s decision in relying on the amended law in giving notices to give effect to the commission’s decision. The Constitutional Court in 2013 set aside the notices that Zuma put out‚ recognising Zanozuko Sigcau as king and deposing Mpondombini as paramount chief. The court’s 2013 decision was expected to settle the question of kingship. The 2013 judgment came three months after the death of Mpondombini. His daughter‚ Wezizwe‚ believed she should be queen to take over from her father‚ following the setting aside of Zuma’s notice by the Constitutional Court. Zuma asked the high court in 2014 for an order declaring that Wezizwe had no right to claim the position of queen. Wezizwe Sigcau’s counsel‚ Patric Mtshaulana SC‚ told the court in February that section 9(3) of the Traditional Leadership and Governance Framework Act stated that where there was an allegation that a person identified as queen or king was not done in terms of customary law‚ the president may refer the matter to the National House of Traditional Leaders for its consideration. However‚ Norman Arendse SC‚ for the president and the department‚ said the approach favoured by Wezizwe would result in the duplication of the task the commission undertook when it investigated the claims for kingship. Judgment was reserved. TimesLIVE