 Parts of Mthatha were on lockdown on Friday as heavily armed police patrolled the streets and redirected traffic after an unknown group of people started burning tyres, closing off the N2 between Mthatha and Tsolo. There were reports of other tyre-burning piles in town and on the R61, but these could not be confirmed. Although no one was arrested, members of the police task team set up to fight taxi violence in the Eastern Cape managed to douse the fires. Acting provincial police commissioner Major General Andre Swart described the incidents as acts of criminality while assuring the local community that their safety was a priority. There were no reports of property or vehicles being damaged by the fires. Swart warned road users passing through Mthatha to consider using alternative routes yesterday, saying police were monitoring the situation in the city very closely. When a Saturday Dispatch team drove through town yesterday morning, several police members were seen directing traffic on some routes, while a stench of teargas hung in the air. Eastern Cape provincial transport spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie said they were not sure who was behind the blocking of the road, but said they suspected it could be people involved in the taxi industry. She said that police remained on high alert following the incident as there were unconfirmed reports that it could also spread to other strategic points in and around Mthatha’s city centre. By the time of going to print yesterday, there was no evidence of this. Meanwhile transport, safety and liaison MEC Weziwe Tikana yesterday warned that those found responsible for blocking “strategic” entrances into Mthatha would be arrested. She also called for communities to remain calm, saying law enforcement officers were on site to control the situation. “We understand the frustrations of our communities. However as a responsible government we must do everything possible to ensure that we secure lasting peace and stability in an industry which our people rely on for mobility.” The MEC said they were busy assessing the situation and if the need arose, more law enforcement officers would be deployed. “We will not hesitate to arrest and let the law deal with those who are perpetrators of these criminal activities,” she added. The newspaper has previously reported that Police Minister Bheki Cele announced the indefinite closure to taxis of the N2 between Mthatha and Tsolo, the R396 between Tsolo and Maclear and the R61 between Mthatha and Port St Johns as one of the measures to deal with ongoing taxi violence which has claimed more than 60 lives in the Eastern Cape since 2016. Meanwhile, Tikana had indicated her department would try and secure alternative transportation for commuters. Last week however the department revealed that it was struggling to secure the services of bus companies as they were afraid to come to Mthatha. The situation has left thousands of commuters stranded, with many having to walk long distances to and from work. Others have claimed they were being targeted by criminals as they had to walk home late in the evening. Government has yet to come up with alternative transport. — sikhon@dispatch.co.za