Playing in the streams and bushes of Amalinda laid the groundwork for East Londoner Tom Swartz to be chosen for Survivor South Africa season six, which airs from May 3. Swartz, 41, who matriculated at Port Rex and is now home after filming ended, said he was “very proud and fortunate” to have grown up in Amalinda. “We played in the streams and bushes and everyone knew everyone. It was my outdoor training area. “I love the outdoors – scuba, camping, hiking, fishing and so on. As long as I’m outside I’m in my happy place.” Like 18 other South African men and women chosen to live on an island in the Philippines, Swartz got to live outside for 39 days. He told the Dispatch he had applied to be a survivor because he has always wanted to be on the show, and he would do it all again. “I wanted to prove to myself that I was not just a guy who read a book and knew the theory of it all, but could physically and mentally do what I said.” Swartz moved to Port Elizabeth with his wife Nicci van der Zee, who is originally from King William’s Town, to set up an anti-poaching unit five years ago. “Nicci is still involved with it and I now run an adventure centre called Basecamp Adventures at Pine Lodge Resort.” The couple have two children: Yasmin, 23, and Dyllan, 14. The game’s trademark lies and deceit were the trickiest challenge for him on the island. “The deception that comes with strategic game play was hard for me to understand. I am more of a ‘what you see is what you get’ type of guy. “Trust on Survivor is earned. In the beginning one can battle trying to figure out who is trustworthy, but people start to show their true colours very quickly.” Survivors traditionally struggle to feed themselves and end up with loose shorts and gaunt faces. It was no different for Swartz, who said his weight loss resembled the weight “of an entire Backstreet Boy”. “It’s amazing how quickly one’s body starts changing there. The lack of food and sleep was just insane. Words can’t explain how difficult it was. I craved hot food. Geez, all and any food!” Still, proving to himself that he could survive on very little was a big deal to the outdoorsy man. “The most fulfilling part was proving to myself that I can – and the friendships that I made, which will last a lifetime.” Now that he has slotted back into normal life, Swartz is getting “very nervous” about watching himself on the small screen. “Sometimes when you’re hungry and tired, as you become in this game, you react differently to how you would normally react in high-pressure situations. But the people who know me well enough will see that nothing has changed. I was exactly who I am on the island – slightly mad.” And, if his new-found celebrity status gets too much for him, he plans to escape to the bush. “I know my family and friends will keep me well grounded. “I just can’t believe the response from our community since my participation has been announced. It’s incredible. “Survivor was one of the toughest things I have ever done in my life, and it’s also the best thing I’ve ever done. Without a doubt. “I would like to thank all my friends and family who have supported me. “Also, Slummies rocks!” lSurvivor SA – Philippines starts on M-Net at 7pm on Thursday, May 3. — barbarah@dispatch.co.za