A resturant with a difference is what The Chairman’s Bistro and Lounge aims to offer the community of Buffalo City Metro when it opens its doors on the Esplanade late next month. The eatery, which will feature a boardroom-for-hire, is a joint venture between well-known businessman Luthando Bara of Orange Grove dining and drinks venue Ground X, Marara Smondile and Luxolo Ndlazi-Afrika. Bara said they saw a gap in the market for a fine dining venue in the city and decided to lease a portion of the building on 12 Esplanade Street – the old Corner Pocket – which up until recently housed the offices of Real People. “This is all in line with our plan to do our part towards transforming the beachfront, which has shown a decline with the closure of Bora Bora, among other venues. “We are not doing this because it is a profitable business, but we want to create a tourist attraction and job opportunities. Leaving our money in the bank to accrue interest could prove more profitable, but it would not have a ripple effect on the economy,” he said. Bara said the 80-seater bistro, which they intended to replicate in Mthatha and Port Elizabeth, would create 19 jobs and “present a new taste and offer exclusive meals”. “It’s a working boardroom, a work space and an eatery because our market is business people and entrepreneurs who can have breakfast, lunch or dinner meetings. “The story behind the name talks to the people who see themselves as business owners as opposed to being employees, which is why we didn’t go for a franchise, but have started a brand we hope to grow and possibly have in other parts of the province. “People venture into franchises because they hide behind the name, but we want to inspire the people who come into our space to know that going into business without a franchise backing you, is highly possible as franchises only make one person rich. “Olwethu Hoyana has become a great success with his brand of Oh!Brigado and we want to encourage others to do the same,” he said. Speaking at the community meeting at the Orient Theatre this week, to announce the move, Smondile and Ndlazi-Afrika said the restaurant would operate from as early as 7am until late, which was warmly welcomed by those attending the meeting. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za