Taxi ranks in and around Mthatha might be officially closed but this has not prevented taxis from operating, with many having found alternative commuter pick-up points. Routes that have been closed to taxis include the R61 between Mthatha and Port St Johns, the N2 between Mthatha and Tsolo and the R396 between Tsolo and Maclear. The Daily Dispatch yesterday visited some of the affected ranks including Circus Triangle, Mamela and Golden Egg. Although there were no taxis at the ranks, taxi drivers opted to use streets near the rank while others pick up commuters along the routes. Some commuters said the closing of the ranks just meant having to wait up to an hour for a taxi at an alternate point. Sandiswa Rune from Misty Mount said she normally knocks off at work at 5pm but has made arrangements to leave work at 3pm to compensate for the waiting time. Ndimphiwe Mbongo said he was relieved the taxis were there at all because he had yet to find any alternative transport on offer. The order to close the ranks was given by Minister of Police Bheki Cele beginning of this month as a way to end the ongoing taxi violence. However his spokeswoman Nonkululeko Phokane referred all questions about the closure to the provincial department of transport. Provincial spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie said they were still trying to secure buses and that they had approached a number of companies but that there were no done deals. “It is a very complex situation but we are working day in and out to secure this service for commuters and to ensure that they are able to travel safely but at the moment we cannot say when,” said Rantjie. Provincial chairwoman of South Africa National Taxi Council, Noluntu Mahashe, said both associations, Border Alliance Taxi Association and Uncedo Service Taxi Association had held discussions over the long weekend and she was hopeful that a lasting agreement had been reached. “Everyone has been hard hit by the closure and that has forced us to work together. We will write to Minister Cele to tell him we have resolved our differences and that the ranks may be opened again.” — ziphon@dispatch.co.za