Seventeen Eastern Cape police officers handed themselves over to police and were hauled before court yesterday to face charges of fraud, corruption and forgery. The charges relate to inflating travel and accommodation allowances by about R100000. The accused, all members of the East London Port of Entry division, comprise two police captains and 15 constables. It was an awkward and tense moment when they were brought up from the cells to the East London Magistrate’s Court dock by their colleagues late yesterday. They were arrested yesterday morning, and appeared in front of magistrate Rochelle Sam. Sam postponed their case to May 23 for further investigation by their colleagues. The 13 men and four women, aged between 30 and 55, were arrested by the provincial anti-corruption unit. Almost all of the accused indicated to court yesterday that they would hire their own private defence, except for Andile Sibawu, who asked for a state lawyer. His request, however, was rejected in no uncertain terms when magistrate Sam informed him that state employees did not qualify for free legal representation from the state. National police spokesman Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo told the Dispatch last night that the officers were accused of defrauding the state of an estimated R100000. Other than Sibawu, the group consists of captains Melanie Zanda and Nomzamo Badli, and constables Likhaya Ngcobondwana, Lulama Princess Lusiti, Monde Tiso, Zingisile Booi, Lindelwa Nkolose, Aphiwe Mangesi, Tabang Moletsana, Siphokazi Loliwe, Bongani Valisi, Edgar Ndlovu, Sithembiso Kofi, Xolisa Lawana, Monde Tyali and Ntsikelelo Njokweni. Naidoo said the group was attached to the East London Port Of Entry when the alleged crimes were committed. Their alleged fraudulent transactions, according to Naidoo, occurred when they were deployed on police operations in Aliwal North during the festive season between December 2016 and January last year. “They are alleged to have inflated invoices for accommodation on which they made claims to the South African Police Service,” said Naidoo. “Any form of corruption and, or criminality by any member of the South African Police Service will be neither tolerated nor condoned.” The National Commissioner of Police General Khehla Sitole welcomed the arrests. “While I am appalled at the news that 17 of our members have been involved in alleged corrupt activities, I am equally elated that they are being brought to book,” Sitole said. “This is also evident in the efforts by the anti-corruption team that has worked tirelessly in identifying, investigating and bringing to book their very own colleagues.” It is understood that the group allegedly colluded with some guest houses to inflate prices. They also allegedly lodged irregular subsistence and travel claims to their respective offices. Subsistence and travel allowances are paid when a state employee is required to travel for business purposes and the travel is out of town. The employer normally gives the employee a daily out-of-town allowance which is meant to be used for travel, food and accommodation costs. The officers are all out of custody on R1000 bail each. — asandan@dispatch. co.za