Buffalo City Metro is preparing to roll out the red carpet for leaders of five of the world’s top emerging economies when they arrive in the city in two months’ time. The Brics countries – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – will spend five days in Buffalo City attending the Brics friendship cities’ and local government forum. In September the annual Brics leaders’ summit will be hosted by South Africa in Johannesburg as a follow-on from the Buffalo City Metro-hosted Brics forum. Yesterday BCM, the provincial department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) and the office of the premier hosted a stakeholder breakfast to engage with business on the state of readiness and opportunities available for the international event, which is expected to boost the economy. BCM mayor Xola Pakati said the metro had jumped at the opportunity to host the event during their visit to China last year, when they participated in a Brics friendship cities’ conference there. “We grabbed it the moment an opportunity presented itself. We know the benefits that will accrue to our city and province by hosting an event of this magnitude and we are fully capable and we have received enormous support from Cogta regarding this important decision.” Pakati said the event would affirm and strengthen their relations with the major cities from Brics countries which had the potential of enhancing mutually-beneficial relations with these cities. “These countries are also experiencing tremendous levels of economic growth in a manner that is beyond the global average. “The Chinese economy, for instance, grew by 6.9% in 2017 and its annual growth rate has been 9.6% from 1989 to 2017. The Indian economy grew by 7.1% in 2017. “Hosting the Brics friendship cities forum and the meeting of ministers responsible for disaster management will present a very rare opportunity for our city to market itself, its value proposition, its aesthetic beauty and the overall hospitality of its people,” said Pakati. Premier Phumulo Masualle commended the city for having secured the event which would collectively benefit the province. “This is an opportunity in which we need to assert ourselves and establish how we can speak to addressing the needs of the people who will be coming here and be strategic in how we go about promoting our local businesses in transport and accommodation which will be in demand during the period. Our capabilities in hosting big events have been evident in the ANC celebrations. “Everyone must be geared up and ready to showcase the province. “Some of the countries are developed because of their ocean economy and we have an 800km coastline which we still need to explore, so this is the time to develop partnerships,” he said. Masualle applauded the politicians for seeking advice and engagements from the business sector on how to make the most of the forum. Cogta MEC Fikile Xasa said hosting the forum was a positive step for the city. “As leadership we need to stand united because of the big responsibility we have of creating sustainability for business,” he said. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za