East London rapper Hasty South, who spent the past year learning all there is to know about the industry, is ready to spread his wings with fresh rhymes. At just age eight, Hasty South, whose real name is Akhona Gege, had already fallen in love with hip-hop. Although he could not organise a song, he freestyled. It was only in 2001 at the age of 14 that he learnt how to write a song. He was a member of groups 645, Black Stone and later Royal Swag. He started his solo career in 2007 and his first release was Spotlight. Now, more than 10 years later, 31-year-old Hasty South is still making music and has spent the past year doing a lot of groundwork in the music industry in Johannesburg. “A lot of people say they are in the music industry but they don’t know the ins and outs of it. I feel like now I can say I am in the music industry but I am an upcoming artist,” he said. The rapper is currently based between Johannesburg and East London. “I spend most of the time in Johannesburg because the company is based there. The name of the company is IGT [I Got This] and I also had a management team that side but I recently parted ways with them.” Through the management company, Gege said he spent most of his time in a studio working with people and also had an opportunity to work with Skwatta Camp rapper Slikour. Some of his extended plays from 2016 include DARQ, The Tape, Fixtape 1&2 and New World Order 1. “Last year was all about groundwork. I will be doing performances this year. I also wrote for some artists, did production work, image consulting and doing videos. “I owe a lot to last year, otherwise I don’t think I would be coming out the way that I am doing this year. The impact, the ambition wouldn’t be like this. When you have connections you learn from them and you start acting like them,” he said, adding that the time he spent last year networking was a blessing and a curse. Spending most of his time in Johannesburg also saw him being restricted from performing in the Eastern Cape. His last performance in Mdantsane was in June but this year he said things were going to change. “Last year I was busy with radio interviews in Johannesburg and just learning all the behind-the-scenes work. This year the groundwork is done. Anyone who wants to work with me can hit me up, I’m ready.” His latest releases are God is Alive, I Died A Long Time Ago and New World Order 2. His music is available on Audiomack. Gege said he was working on releasing two more singles before dropping a full album. To hear some of his music, follow his Facebook page Hasty South. — poliswap@dispatch.co.za