The Nelson Mandela Foundation has mourned the death of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela‚ the struggle activist who stood strong while her ex-husband‚ former president Nelson Mandela‚ was in prison. Describing her as “the mother of the nation”‚ the foundation said: “The struggle could never have been what it became without the undying zeal and passion of Mam’ Winnie‚ both for the country and our people. The Mandela name we revere today was kept alive by her through the most difficult times. As a woman she kept the family and the hopes of all black people alive. It’s a very sad loss to women emancipation.” They described her passing as a blow for the foundation. “She travelled a very long road together with our founder‚ Nelson Mandela. She was a member of a generation of leaders which survived the most brutal period of state terror in apartheid South Africa. And she was a friend of the foundation. “All South Africans are indebted to Mama Winnie‚ whether they acknowledge it or not. From the witness of her life‚ we knew we could stand tall; we knew also we could falter and stumble. Either condition was an affirmation of life. Her cry was our cry‚ and in 2018 we can say we did triumph‚” said foundation chairperson Professor Njabulo Ndebele. The ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) also paid tribute to Madikizela-Mandela‚ calling her a as prolific woman who could never be forgotten. “The epitome of the struggle against inequalities‚ unemployment and poverty is no more. One of the prolific women leaders our country has had is gone but will never be forgotten. She will forever remain one of the astounding activists and embodiment of ANCWL values that we will always refer to in the struggle against emancipation of women. “She will forever remain an encouraging figure in the fight against patriarchy and male chauvinism in and outside politics‚” the league said in its official statement. Madikizela-Mandela died on Monday afternoon following a short illness. Her family was by her side‚ family spokesman Victor Dlamini said. The 81-year-old had been in and out of hospital since January. The ANCWL said Madikizela-Mandela endured physical and emotional torture under the apartheid regime and never thought of quitting the struggle to follow her career as a professional social worker. “Because of her love of the people she remained committed to the struggle for better live for all until her last day on earth. The ANCWL takes this moment to send our deepest and most heartfelt condolences to both the Madikizela and the Mandela families. We take this moment to send our deepest and most heartfelt condolences to both the Madikizela and Mandela families as we mourn the mother of the ANCWL who led the ANCWL during the most difficult times of our country and ANC most trying times of our country when all the odds were against her‚” the league said.