Not only is the fight a welcome relief for the KwaBhaca-born Duncan Village-trained boxer, it also offers him an opportunity to add yet another world title to his collection as the vacant WBF lightweight title will be at stake. We caught up with Ndongeni just as he was rounding off his preparations for the fight. BOXING MECCA: You must be feeling great now that at least the focus is about a fight and not about your problems out of the ring. XOLISANI NDONGENI: I am very relieved because at the end of the day I am known as a boxer and as such I need to be asked about my fights and not about that other stuff. BM: How much did you struggle to prepare for this fight, taking into account that you have not been active? Are you still able to make the lightweight? XN: It was relative easy because I was training with guys who are also preparing for their own bouts this weekend, guys like Mokwana (Thompson), Ndwayana (Mziwoxolo), Ja Jay (Ayabonga Sonjica), Zingange (Sibusiso), so there was that buzz in the gym. As for my weight, I have just climbed on the scale now and my weight is 61.5kg so you can see that I am already on weight. I have never struggled to make the lightweight. BM: What can we expect from Nomeva after he trained in the famous Mayweather gymnasium in the US? XN: I cannot say that people should expect this or that because styles make fights. For all we know Ndauendapo may come with a style that could make me look bad. But there is definitely something which fans will see changed in me. BM: Have you had a chance to watch Ndauendapo on video footage? XN: Yes we watched him and we found that he is a busy fighter and I think it is a good for me. At least I will not have to chase him around the ring. BM: Tell me about training at Sean Smith’s gym compared to others you trained in before. XN: I must say it is easy training at Sean’s gym because like I said he is not someone new to me. I have known him for a while and it helps the fact that he is also training my friends so I easily fit into the set-up. BM: You must be grateful to TLB Promotions for giving you this opportunity. XN: I cannot thank them enough for believing in me. You know my story and for me to simply get action just a few weeks after joining Sean is wonderful. BM: While regarded as a marginal title, the WBF at stake must be an extra motivation for you. XN: It is a major motivation regardless because it will enhance my status and we all know that status is everything in boxing. Winning this title will hopefully return me to the ratings and once I am in there, then we can plan accordingly. BM: Finally I am sure that you have been sparring with Mokwana so you are best placed to give us a prediction on his fight against Vetyeka. XN: (laughing) Not a chance! Yes I have been sparring with Mokwana but I am not getting involved in giving predictions for his fight. I am only focusing on my own fight, which I should win. NB: The tournament will also feature a maiden title defence by reigning SA junior-welterweight champion Xolani Mcotheli against Warren Joubert.