Former cabinet minister Zola Skweyiya, 75, died yesterday, only a few days before his birthday and on the day President Cyril Ramaphosa and former presidents Thabo Mbeki and Kgalema Motlanthe were meant to visit him. Family spokesman Dr Khulu Mbatha said Skweyiya died yesterday at 7am. Mbatha said the Skweyiya family regretted that the news of the passing of the ANC stalwart was leaked to the media before his other family members and the ANC had been informed. “We are aware that many ANC leaders and members, including the president of the ANC Cyril Ramaphosa and former presidents Thabo Mbeki and Kgalema Motlanthe, had indicated that they would be paying him a visit today. Unfortunately his departure has shocked all of us,” Mbatha said. Ramaphosa extended his condolences to family, friends and comrades of Skweyiya. “Our thoughts, as colleagues and comrades, go out to the family and friends of Dr Skweyiya, who served our country with great passion and distinction during his time in cabinet and the diplomatic service,” Ramaphosa said. ANC national spokesman Pule Mabe said the ANC “once again dips its banner in mourning, as it was informed of the passing of this ANC veteran, constitutional expert, diplomat and leader”. Mabe said Skweyiya died after a protracted illness. Skweyiya would have turned 76 on Saturday. Between 1982 and 1985 Skweyiya represented the ANC at the Organisation of African Unity – now the African Union – before being redeployed to Lusaka, Zambia, to set up the party’s legal and constitutional department. He served on the national executive committee of the ANC until 2012. Mabe said Skweyiya became a member of parliament in 1994 and immediately assumed the position of minister of Public Service and Administration. In 1999 he was appointed minister of Social Development, a post he held for 10 years. “In social development, he spearheaded the implementation of our social protection system, including the child grants and the formation of the Sassa,” Mabe said. In 2009 Skweyiya was appointed the high commissioner to the UK and Ireland, where he advanced the interest of South Africa and Africa. Mabe said the ANC mourned the loss of “this gentle giant whose life was one of service, excellence and love for his people and movement”. Skweyiya died while memorial services were being held for late ANC former leader Winnie Madikizela Mandela. — zolilem@tisoblackstar.co.za