The leader of the African Democratic Change and former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza has detailed how late struggle starlwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela gave her support during the most turbulent of times in Parliament. “I am devastated‚” she said when told of Madikizela-Mandela’s death on Monday. “She was a woman that was beside me throughout my trials and tribulations last year. When I was facing persecution‚ she was phoning me on a daily basis. She actually gave me the strength to go on. I don’t know how much more I can actually say.” Khoza suffered serious attacks and threats while she was an ANC MP for her criticism of the president Jacob Zuma. Before forming a new political party‚ Khoza had confided with Madikizela-Mandela as this was a turning point in her life. “I spoke to her and she understood the challenges that I was faced with. She could identify with what I was going through because she also was once persecuted‚” Khoza said. On Monday afternoon‚ the world was shocked to learn that Madikizela-Mandela had passed away at the Netcare Milpark Hospital. The 81-year-old had been in and out of hospital since January with what a spokesman at the time said was a kidney infection. Family spokesman‚ Victor Dlamini‚ said on Monday afternoon: “It is with profound sadness that we inform the public that Mrs Winnie Madikizela-Mandela passed away at the Netcare Milpark Hospital‚ Johannesburg‚ South Africa on Monday April 2‚ 2018. “She died after a long illness‚ for which she had been in and out of hospital since the start of the year. She succumbed peacefully in the early hours of Monday afternoon surrounded by her family and loved ones.” Dlamini described Madikizela-Mandela as “one of the greatest icons of the struggle against apartheid”. “The Mandela family is deeply grateful for the gift of her life and even as our hearts break at her passing‚ we urge all those who loved her to celebrate this most remarkable woman‚” he said. Memorial and funeral details would be announced once they had been finalised.