Parents whose children will be starting Grade 1 and Grade 8 in 2019 have been urged to apply for school on time to avoid any disappointments. According to the department of education, application forms will be available and distributed at various schools from next Tuesday. Two years ago the department launched the “Early Bird” campaign, a campaign that, through newspaper adverts and radio announcements, encourages parents to apply on time. However when schools re-opens every year, it becomes evident that not all parents heed to the call. The Dispatch has for several years reported on hundreds of parents queuing outside schools every morning throughout the month of January, desperate to secure a place for their children who are first-time primary or high school pupils. This year a total of 4 000 pupils had not been placed in schools by the first day of term and it took the department of education an extra four weeks to process these late admissions. About a month ago there was still a handful of parents whose children had not be placed in schools and they were protesting outside the Rhubusana education district office in Mdantsane, demanding the department place their children at “suitable” schools. East London, Port Elizabeth, Komani and Mthatha were flagged as the worst areas when it comes to late admission of pupils. The spokesman for the department, Malibongwe Mtima, said since the launch of the campaign the department had managed to enrol a “sizeable” number of pupils. “We are pleading with all parents whose children will be starting primary or high school not wait until the last hour to apply. Also remember, once a school masters the art of enrolling pupils, the department is able to budget accordingly for that school and deploy all the needed resources and enough teachers for that school.” The department’s admission management plan indicates that the process of enrolling and placing pupils will take place from April 10 up until October 12 where all pupils who applied within the application period are expected to be placed at schools with space. Application forms will be available until May 25, placement of pupils will start on June 22 and parents will be informed by July 27 whether their child’s application was successful or not.