Work is under way to repair the Eastern Beach sewer, which is a major 1.2m diameter line that runs along the Esplanade and serves the Quigney. The R15-million job entails repairing damage to the pipe caused by the huge seas which rose during a storm that wreaked havoc in East London in September. For a short time after the storm the sewer could be seen spewing raw sewage into the ocean. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said they expected the work being carried out by Maziya General Services to be completed by June, but that this would depend on the weather and other factors affecting the sea conditions. She said the new pipe followed the same route as the old one to the East Bank wastewater treatment works, which is in the Nahoon Point Reserve and adjacent to the East London Golf Club’s No 2 hole. “There is an existing pipe which caters for emergencies,” said Diamond. “The new pipe will consist of a specially manufactured 1050mm concrete pipe that will cater for future increased sewer flows for Buffalo City,” said Diamond. A source at the site, who cannot be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media, said the new pipe would be protected from future storms by a 4m-high breakwall. The wall is 400mm thick, with its foundation being drilled into the rock. A rainwater drain will be run through the repaired section of the protective wall to release runoff into the ocean. “The challenge is the rock surface we have to drill into. It is uneven and of different strengths so it delays us,” said the source. Last year’s storm saw massive 15 to 20-foot waves pummel the Eastern Beach, hitting onlookers and throwing blocks of cement and rocks onto the Esplanade, turning it into a danger zone. After the storm, roads in Eastern Beach, Gonubie and Leaches Bay had to be closed for a cleanup. The small brick walls along the Esplanade were also knocked down by waves. The extreme weather was not bad news for everyone though – metal hunters rejoiced as their metal detectors turned up lost objects that had become accessible after swells ate away almost half the dunes at the Nahoon Point Nature Reserve, and surfers took advantage of good waves in the shelter of Nahoon Corner.