There has been a significant decline in the number of new listeria cases reported in East London over the last month. This is according to Frere Hospital infectious disease specialist David Stead. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch, Stead said the hospital had not seen any new adult or neonatal patients with listeriosis in the past month. Stead said the decrease in numbers wasn’t only a local phenomena but was recognised nationally following the public recall of ready-to-eat processed products from Enterprise. “The figures are right down. It’s quite impressive. Things have calmed down quite a lot, and we’re starting to see a reduction in numbers nationwide. “This is largely attributed to the impact of the recall.” He said the recent outbreak was the largest the world has experienced. “We previously had low levels of listeria. This has certainly been the largest outbreak worldwide. The drop seems quite dramatic following the recall and numbers are looking positive.” Stead said exposure to the bacteria was not necessarily a death sentence, but early diagnosis was key. “Someone who’s made a full recovery can carry on with their lives. After surviving the infection, most patients shouldn’t experience any post-infection complications.” This has been the case with Luleka Ndamase. The Dispatch reported last month that Ndamase was rushed to Frere hospital in February where she tested positive for listeriosis. She spent a month in the Intensive Care Unit and then the high care ward. Ndamase’s tale ended on a victorious note as she has made a complete recovery and was sent home with a clean bill of health in March. Luleka’s stepmother Lindiwe Ndamase said it was hard to believe that just two months ago her daughter lay fighting for her life in hospital. “She’s so much better compared to what she was. She can eat again now and is back to doing the things she loved the most – like taking walks. I was scared that she would relapse, but the doctors assured me that she was completely healed.” Stead said if listeria was diagnosed from the onset, chances of lasting effects and even death were minimal. “The disease responds well to antibiotics, and is effectively and easily treatable. Re-infections are not common. It might take some time before a listeria survivor feels stronger physically, but they can expect to get back to normal life once treated.”— nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za