Eastern Cape police have made a breakthrough in the murder investigation of off-duty Detective Sergeant Phumzile Michael Ntando.  A man of 24 was arrested four hours before the officer’s funeral this weekend at his home in Nothanenze village in Ntabankulu. EmaXesibeni Cluster commander Brigadier Mtutuzeli Mtukushe applauded the task team for the arrest on Saturday. “They worked around the clock and within seven days of the shooting and fatal wounding of our officer the task team made an arrest. “This will not bring back the lost life, but news of the arrest serves as comfort, not only to the bereaved family but also to his colleagues and SAPS management,” he said. EmaXesibeni cluster police spokeswoman Captain Edith Mjoko said the father of four had been gunned down last Saturday. He was shot four times in the head and five times in the chest. Mjoko said the youth, who had since confessed, was arrested at about 5am on Saturday in Mthatha. “The task team was following information when they pounced on the suspect in a village near Mthatha. He is a known person who has previously clashed with law. “He is to appear at the KwaBhaca Magistrate’s Court on a charge of murder,” said Mjoko, adding that police were still looking for the weapon. “The bereaved were comforted to hear of the arrest when it was announced at the funeral service by station commander Colonel Mthethunzima Hintsa,” said Mjoko, who also attended the service. lA young man was killed in a VW Jetta on the N2 near Hemingways in the early hours of yesterday. “The driver lost control and crashed into the subway wall under a bridge,” said Cambridge police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi. No other cars or people were involved. No further details were available before going to print yesterday. lWillowvale police arrested a 27-year-old man for possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. “The suspect was arrested in possession of an unlicensed revolver and 25 rounds of ammunition on Saturday at about 10pm at Mboya village near Willowvale,” said police Captain Jackson Manatha. The suspect will appear before a Willowvale magistrate today. lMbi said a man was arrested at the Berlin landfill after patrolling officers found him to be in possession of 10 mandrax pills valued at R500. He will appear in the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court charged with illegal drug possession. lIn Mdantsane’s NU10, a youth of 25 was arrested trying to burn the plastic off stolen copper cable, with an estimated street value of R2000. Police were acting on a tip-off. — Additional reporting by Tyler Ridden