A goal from Krahire Zakri in the dying minutes of the match salvaged a point for Ajax Cape Town after playing to a 1-1 draw against Chippa United in an Absa Premiership game at the Nelson Mandela Stadium in Port Elizabeth yesterday. 
There was a rather pedestrian opening 25 minutes with neither side really able to create any significant goal scoring chances. The first real effort on goal only came in the 28th minute Mark Mayambela fired a 30-metre free-kick just wide of the Ajax target. Just after the half hour mark the Urban Warriors fashioned their first scoring chance when Zakri beat two defenders on his way into the box, but saw his close range effort cleared off the line by Paseka Mako. Mako then nearly gave Ajax the lead in the 40th minute when he let fly from long range, but saw his powerful shot strike the crossbar. There was no score at half-time. Eight minutes into the second half Chippa took the lead when Mxolisi Macuphu turned home a corner from Thabo Rakhale. Ajax tried to hit back and came close to finding an equaliser in the 70th minute when Tashreeq Morris played Morné Nel through on goal, but he fired his shot from close range over the target with just the goalkeeper to beat. The Urban Warriors continued to push forward after that and were finally rewarded for their efforts in the 90th minute when a defensive error by Chippa allowed Zakri space and time on the ball inside the box, and he made no mistake from close range, making the final score 1-1. l In another PSL match played yesterday, Orlando Pirates kept alive their Absa Premiership title hopes with a come-from-behind 2-1 win away to AmaZulu at King Zwelithini Stadium in Durban. The result sees the second-placed Buccaneers close to within three points of Mamelodi Sundowns, though the leaders will have the chance to stretch their lead back to six points when they play their midweek game in hand. AmaZulu started strongly and claimed the lead in the 11th minute when a quick counter attack saw Ovidy Karuru run free down the right flank before providing a perfect low cross for Mabhuti Khenyeza to turn the ball home at the far post. AmaZulu were then prepared to allow Pirates the majority of possession, but they remained a great threat on the break, with the experience of Siyabonga Nomvethe and Khenyeza combining well with the pace and energy of Mhlengi Cele and Karuru. The Buccaneers took a while to recover from AmaZulu’s aggressive start, but in the 33rd minute they drew level at 1-1, with Musa Nyatama’s glancing header from Luvoyo Memela’s free kick getting the better of goalkeeper Siyabonga Mbatha. AmaZulu’s brave rearguard action finally faltered in the 80th minute, as a cross from the left by Innocent Maela was missed by his teammates in the middle, but substitute Thabo Qalinge arrived late to meet the ball and strike a low shot into the back of the net.