The rand was marginally weaker on Thursday afternoon in range-bound trade after the dollar recovered slightly after weakening following reports that China was considering cutting purchases of US treasuries. Rand investors now await signals from the ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) meeting in East London. The confirmation‚ however‚ that President Jacob Zuma’s resignation as head of state was not discussed‚ put a lid on further gains in the currency. Higher commodity prices kept the rand from losing further ground. The rand seemed to be in a state of confusion at the moment‚ said Peregrine Treasury analyst Bianca Botes. “Markets are also disappointed in Zuma escaping a much-anticipated recall by the governing party.” At 3pm the rand was at R12.4711 to the dollar from R12.4346‚ at R14.972 to the euro from R14.8576 and at R16.8179 to the pound from R16.8028. The euro was at $1.2006 from $1.1947. The European Central Bank’s (ECB) minutes of the December meeting‚ released on the day‚ indicated the bank may mull its forward guidance‚ Dow Jones Newswires reported. “The language pertaining to various dimensions of the monetary policy stance and forward guidance could be revisited early in the coming year.” The ECB had earlier reduced its monthly bond purchases from €60bn to €30bn‚ but indicated it would not increase interest rates until inflation showed a more measured increase. A further curtailment of the ECB’s stimulus policy could be on the cards on upbeat economic growth‚ analysts said. Bonds were marginally worse shortly before midday on Monday‚ tracking the weaker rand as focus shifts to local and international data releases this week. Analysts said focus would shift to data releases‚ including US nonfarm payroll numbers expected on Friday‚ while local trade numbers are expected later on Monday. The… July 31, 2017 South African bonds were firmer on Tuesday afternoon‚ as the rand gained marginally against the greenback on indications that controversial ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule may lose his position in the event of a recount. Reports on Tuesday suggested that 68 ballots had not been counted during leadership elections that resulted… December 19, 2017 South African bonds were weaker in afternoon trade on Tuesday as the market followed a softer rand following President Jacob Zuma’s 12th Cabinet reshuffle since 2009‚ and his second in 2017. Among those moved were former state security minister David Mahlobo‚ who has been moved to the energy portfolio and… October 17, 2017