Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has caused many contretemps on Twitter‚ but now he has been served with a 24-hour warning over his handling of a cop matter. The South African Policing Union on Tuesday called on Mbalula to retract a remark he made on Twitter in connection with the announcement that two local police station commanders in Mogale City had been replaced. “We are giving Minister Mbalula 24 hours to retract this statement as it defames our members‚” the union said. “We have always called upon the Minister to stop his irresponsible statements . . . His continued irresponsible statements are causing a lot of harm within the police service. As a responsible union‚ we will never allow a situation where our dedicated and committed senior officers are humiliated by a minister who is overlapping in his job‚” said SAPU. The minister visited Mogale City on the West Rand on Wednesday‚ showcasing the demolition of a dilapidated building he said had been used by criminals. Community members of Krugersdorp‚ Kagiso and Munsieville have been demonstrating against alleged drug dens and brothels. SAPU said it was committed to working with police management to root out crime. “Whilst committed to that just (cause)‚ we will not compromise the dignity of our members.” Police minister Fikile Mbalula says new heads of the police Crime Intelligence division and the Hawks will be appointed soon. “[Richard] Mdluli is out … Morris Tshabalala and all other Morris Tshabalalas who are there [at Crime Intelligence] and who have been doing as they wish‚ whatever is the case‚… January 29, 2018 Police minister Fikile Mbalula has urged officers to continue to “harass” criminals, and denied wrongfully arresting eight men on their way to a funeral and illegally searching their coffin and corpse. His call came after The Times reported how Mbalula posted images of eight men – arrested in connection with… October 14, 2017 As another attack on an Uber driver took place in Gauteng today‚ Police Minister Fikile Mbalula announced that he was joining his transport counterpart in devising a plan to deal with the mounting violence. https://twitter.com/MbalulaFikile/status/887629210512224258   He said he was intervening in the conflict between the metered taxi and e-hailing… July 19, 2017