The ANC in the Eastern Cape wants the party’s integrity commission (PIC) to charge all those implicated in the Estina dairy farm scandal, as well as those arrested earlier this month for allegations of corruption in Alfred Nzo municipality. The party also wants its Professor Shepherd Mayatula-led PIC to fast-track its investigation against three ANC leaders, who face charges of bringing the party into disrepute. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukaitobi confirmed this week that the PIC has been instructed to finalise its case against Amathole regional secretary Teris Ntutu, former Buffalo City mayor and ANC member of the national council of provinces Zukisa Faku, as well as Walter Sisulu municipal speaker Kholekile Lange. This follows last weekend’s provincial executive committee resolution which assigned the commission to urgently finalise its investigation into the conduct of Faku, Ntutu, as well as Lange. The Hawks raided the office of ANC secretary-general and Free State premier Ace Magashule last week following fraud allegations linked to the Hawks probe into the Estina Dairy Project. It is alleged that millions of rands were siphoned from the Free State government under the guise of empowering locals. Also implicated in the scandal is the then-Free State agriculture MEC Mosebenzi Zwane, who is an ANC national executive committee member and Minister of Mineral Resources. Referring to the Alfred Nzo and Estina dairy cases, Ngcukaitobi said: “The Hawks must be given space to do their job, arrest those implicated and the PIC [must be given space] to also charge those implicated.” Ntutu could not be reached for comment yesterday, saying “I am on leave for now”. Lange could not be reached for comment by the time of writing. An ANC faction in Buffalo City Metro region held a secret meeting in which Ayanda Matiti was officially pitted against current chair and former city mayor Zukiswa Faku. The Matiti-led faction met at a lodge outside Gonubie on Saturday. The group wants to “bridge the gap” it says was created… April 13, 2015 A prominent lawyer representing Amathole ANC regional secretary Teris Ntutu has told the head of the National Prosecuting  Authority, Advocate Shaun Abrahams, that arresting and charging Ntutu will have far-reaching consequences for the politician who is busy preparing for the looming ANC provincial and national conferences. Ntutu has hired Mvuzo Notyesi… May 2, 2017 ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte arrived in East London yesterday on a four-day visit of the Eastern Cape. On a mission to assess the state of the organisation in the province’s two metros, she spent her first day locked in meetings with Buffalo City Metro (BCM) mayor Alfred Mtsi, his… March 3, 2016