A lecturer at the University of Witwatersrand (Wits) has been suspended for allegedly making derogatory racial remarks about protesting university workers. The man‚ identified as engineering lecturer Dieter Hartmann‚ was alleged to have sent through an email in which he labelled the strikers as “monkeys”. “The lecturer will not be allowed onto the university’s campuses whilst the matter is being dealt with by the university’s transformation and employee relations offices‚ in line with the university’s rules‚ policies and procedures‚” said Wits University spokesperson Buhle Zuma. “The university does not tolerate any form of prejudice and will ensure that the matter is addressed expeditiously‚” she added. Hartmann allegedly sent the email while members of the National Education‚ Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) were protesting for a wage increase at the institution last week. In a screenshot of an email‚ posted on Twitter by Hosi‏ @Sochangane‚ Hartmann allegedly said: “Oh no. They’re singing outside my window now. Urgh. Monkeys. Biggest. Jungle. Connect the dots.” Nehawu said it was infuriated over the purported remarks and hoped that the university would take action. “We are aware of the incident. It is unacceptable that years into democracy we still have a situation where black people are subjected to racial hatred. Truth is‚ the majority of people who are affected by low wages are blacks. We are getting infuriated with this‚” said Khaya Xaba‚ Nehawu spokesperson. Xaba said that they were following up on the matter and “so should the Human Rights Commission”. Hartmann could not be reached for comment. However‚ in another email screenshot‚ the lecturer is said to have apologised for his remarks. “But I hope that after a year of getting to know me‚ you realise that I don’t have the nature that intends hurt or to harm others. I hope that after all this time‚ you know that my heart is not a racist one. I also hope that you know me to be someone who jokes‚ about contextual issues and that these can‚ at times be out there and close to the line‚” read the screenshot. Hartmann further wrote that what he had said was taken out of context‚ saying: “In context‚ words always mean something different. “I hope that you can see beyond the words to appreciate that there was no hurtful intent. That is just not my nature.” He further stated that he was in “trouble” because the institution was aware of the incident. “I completely concede that this wasn’t funny‚ and you have my apology. Unreserved. The line was crossed.” read his email. @WitsUniversity is investigating the allegations. If true, disciplinary action will be taken against the lecturer in line with the Uni's rules. @WitsUniversity has a zero tolerance approach towards any form of prejudice & will ensure that the matter is dealt with expeditiously. — Shirona37 (@shirona37) January 27, 2018  We have to follow due process – tweets don't hold up in courts or disciplinary processes — Shirona37 (@shirona37) January 28, 2018  Racist Wits Lecturer calls striking workers monkeys. Wits sinawe on Monday pic.twitter.com/Q2Zzl2n0H5 — Hosi (@Sochangane) January 27, 2018  A whole educated UNIVERSITY lecturer calling people monkeys! What could be worse? Doesn't education teach people to be civilised? — Dworks (@Ditiro_N) January 29, 2018  Academic programmes at the University of Fort Hare's nursing department have come to a complete standstill this morning. More than 300 nursing students are demonstrating outside the university's East London campus demanding the removal of one of their lecturers. They accuse her, among other things, of running the department "like… August 10, 2017 Nursing students at University of Fort Hare (UFH) have demanded that the acting head of the department be permanently removed, accusing her of prejudice. The more than 300 students have accused Ntombana Rala, acting head of nursing science, of threatening to fail them, mistreating them and being manipulative. The nursing… August 11, 2017 By ADRIENNE CARLISLE and MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI Exams at Rhodes University will go ahead, says the university. Despite a weekend of protest, arson and extensive damage to property, including to one of the main examination venues, the university is adamant exams will be written. The university said that over the weekend… October 25, 2016