Four villages in Ndabakazi were hit by a massive storm on Tuesday that wreaked havoc in the area, leaving some homes and a school severely damaged and car windscreens broken. The villages affected by the storm are the Mqambeli, Bumbane, Zangwa and Mangweni administrative areas. Michael Matiwane, 64, of the Zangwa administrative area, described the storm as “the first of its kind” that he had experienced. He said his home had been completely destroyed. “As from today, I am officially homeless. There is no roof and the walls have cracked. All the clothing and bedding are still wet and the furniture is ruined,” Matiwane said. All his windows and roof tiles were broken, but fortunately no one had been injured, he said. “I have never seen such huge hailstones in my life. I was terrified. The sound of the hailstones falling was like we were in a war zone. “We spent the whole night yesterday [Tuesday] trying to collect what’s left, and also trying to find a place for shelter for myself. The whole roof is damaged.” Phakama Mpini said she saw dark clouds minutes before the storm hit. “I was in the kitchen when I heard what sounded like stones hitting my roof, I was terror stricken. I have never been that scared in my life.” She said some hailstones were so heavy they came straight through her roof, almost hitting her. “Shortly after the storm passed, I went out to assess the damage and was shocked to see that my home was wrecked. Gutters, water pipes and windows were all broken,” Mpini said. She said the heavy rain that followed made it even worse. Zoleka Mdayi said her home had been shredded by the hailstones. “Mine is totally destroyed, there is nothing left; all my belongings are outside,” she said, saying she had to ask her neighbours to shelter her and her children. “I thank God that my children were not at home at the time of the incident. Had they been here, they would have been injured when the roof caved in,” she said. Provincial education spokesman Mali Mtima said the department would send inspectors to Vulihlanga High School in the area, which was also badly damaged by the storm. “The department has been made aware but unfortunately we have not received a letter from the principal detailing the extent of the damage.” As soon as the department received the report, they would deploy inspectors to assess the damage. ADM spokesman Siyabulela Makunga said the ADM disaster management team had been dispatched to conduct an assessment to determine the extent of the damage caused by the storm. No fatalities or permanent loss of property were reported. He said the number of households affected and cost of damages could not be confirmed at this stage owing to the intensity of the assessment. “Other stakeholders involved in this exercise include traditional authorities, the provincial departments of human settlements, education and cooperative governance, as well as the department of social development and traditional affairs.” — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za