The Eastern Cape department of health has tightened security at the Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital this morning for the safety of its staff and victims of taxi violence that are receiving care there. 
Department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said dozens of police have been deployed around the premises of the hospital and at the entrance. “There will be thorough search of all the cars entering the hospital,” he said.
Kupelo said they were trying to prevent a situation where, like in the past, survivors of the taxi violence got killed inside their premises.
“[This is] also for the safety of our doctors and nurses as any incident of violence inside the hospital would affect the running of the hospital negatively,” he said.
One person died after he succumbed to injuries he sustained when the shootout between rival taxi organisations broke out last night.
Kupelo said three survivors were receiving treatment at the hospital, while another was treated and discharged yesterday.
Police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni earlier told DispatchLIVE that police were investigating cases of attempted murder. Another person has been admitted to the Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital this morning as the taxi violence continues in the Mthatha area. Two survivors that were admitted last night are still receiving treatment. They were among four people that were taken to the hospital after they were shot in Gxulu… January 26, 2018 Eastern Cape health bosses have barred taxis from entering the gates of Nelson Mandela Central Hospital – even when ferrying critically injured patients. This after a group of men entered the hospital in a taxi two weeks ago and allegedly tried to kill a patient who had earlier arrived in… April 10, 2017 An emergency meeting has been called to address a series of security breaches which have seen at least two people being treated for injuries at Mthatha’s largest hospital. In the latest incident a man was wounded after a group of more than five men attacked him inside the premises of… January 13, 2015