As the newly elected ANC leadership grapples with serious issues‚ social media is poking fun at the gathering in East London and warning that well-heeled “comrades” will make off with the town’s women. The ANC is celebrating its 106th birthday in the coastal town and the red carpet will be rolled out for high-profile dignitaries‚ including Kenyan president Uhuru Kenyatta and former Mozambican head of state Joaquim Chissano. Speculation is rife that one of the sticky issues the ruling party’s national executive committee will tackle is President Jacob Zuma’s axing. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the January 8 statement on Monday and the town has been buzzing since. Facebook and Twitter posts warned that men should be wary of their wives and girlfriends going anywhere near East London International Convention Centre‚ declaring the venue a “danger zone”. Pictures of luxury cars – supposedly belonging to ANC bigwigs attending the celebrations – were also posted on the social media platforms. Bongani Ndunyana posted a picture of a black German SUV on Facebook with the warning: “If you in EL you better make SOLID plans with your gf otherwise she will end up in ICC … The comrades have arrived.” He added: “ICC danger zone”. Twitter user Simanye Mavume tweeted: “ANC is in town‚ East London girls are @ ICC.”  But Luzuko Charlie was not pleased by the posts. On Facebook he said: “Not every lady goes to ICC for pleasure‚ remember there are the focused ones clinching business deals. #SlayQueen you’re on your own.”      ANC top brass descended on the Eastern Cape yesterday in a fact-finding mission after complaints from premier Phumulo Masualle and his supporters. They are questioning the legitimacy of events leading to the election of Oscar Mabuyane as the province’s new ANC chairman and his executive earlier this month. Masualle and… October 30, 2017 Deployees causing loss of trust. ANC national spokesman Zizi Kodwa has lambasted “lazy comrades” in government saying they were reason the party was losing trust in Eastern Cape’s metros. Addressing the party’s provincial lekgotla in East London at the weekend, Kodwa said cadre deployment of “clueless and lazy” comrades into… June 23, 2014 While senior ANC leaders spent last weekend dining, puffing on Cuban cigars and swilling down expensive whisky and French champagne in Cape Town’s finest restaurants, hundreds of their followers were battling dehydration and starvation. Some were so hungry that at least four ANC supporters collapsed when the buses in which they… January 17, 2015