Eleven traffic officers have been arrested in a crackdown by the Road Traffic Management Corporation’s National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit and the Hawk’s Serious Corruption Crime Unit as part of their campaign to stamp out corruption in the traffic law enforcement fraternity. The officers aged between 32 and 54 were arrested in Mokopane in Limpopo following intensive investigations into allegations of bribery and unethical conduct among traffic officers in the province‚ the RTMC said on Tuesday. The latest arrests bring the total number of traffic officers arrested in the province to 33 since December. The suspects are expected to appear before the Mokopane Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday on charges of corruption. The RTMC said Investigations were continuing and more arrests could be expected. “The success of this operation should send a clear message to traffic officers that crime does not pay and they must strictly adhere to the terms and conditions of their employment‚” it said. A joint operation between the Hawks’ Serious Corruption Unit and Road Traffic Management Corporation’s National.  Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit culminated in the arrest of 10 traffic officers in the Tzaneen area in Limpopo on Wednesday. The RTMC said the arrests came after an intensive investigation by both corruption-busting units under the… December 13, 2017 An ongoing joint operation between the Hawks’ Serious Corruption Unit and Road Traffic Management Corporation’s National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit in Limpopo has netted a total of 17 traffic officers in the Tzaneen area. The Hawks said the operation has been planned since April‚ with arrests taking place from Tuesday this… December 14, 2017 Two traffic officers and a driving school instructor, arrested on Tuesday and charged with selling fraudulent learners’ and drivers’ licences , were remanded in custody yesterday. The two traffic officers – Nomonde Mangesi, 38, and Nonceba Matsinya, 52, – were arrested at the Nyandeni traffic department testing centre where they work.… July 14, 2016