The offices of Free State premier Ace Magashule and the provincial department of agriculture are being raided by members of the Hawks as part of their ongoing probe into state capture‚ reports and sources said. Spokesperson for the Hawks Hangwani Mulaudzi was not immediately available to comment but did confirm the raids to other media outlets. TimesLIVE also confirmed the bust with a source at the National Prosecuting Authority. It is understood that at least two units of the Hawks are sifting through documents and computers in search of evidence linked to the Estina dairy farm project. Court papers filed by the National Prosecuting Authority’s Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) last week in support of a preservation order alleged that the project funnelled money to the Gupta family and their associates – and that little to no oversight was exercised by the department over how the funds were being spent. The Bloemfontein High Court on Thursday granted an order to freeze assets amounting to R220-million‚ including the Krynaauwslust Farm in Vrede in the Free State. Atul Gupta is one the individuals whose personal bank accounts are affected by the order. The court papers contain allegations that R10-million of the funds paid to Estina for the dairy farm was paid into his personal bank account. All told‚ the AFU has found that of the R220-million given to Estina for the project‚ only R2-million was actually spent on the farm. Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan is being investigated by the Hawks over the alleged bugging of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) offices in 2007‚ Business Day reported on Thursday. The newspaper said Gordhan's predecessor Trevor Manuel and his former deputy Jabu Moleketi had been subpoenaed in connection with the case.… August 31, 2017 ANC secretary general Ace Magashule says there are no timelines attached to an undertaking that the ANC’s top six officials manage state president Jacob Zuma’s exit from office. Speaking to the media after a two-day lekgotla‚ Magashule said the ANC officials were “seized with the matter” but would not give… January 22, 2018 A pro-democracy activist has labelled a series of high profile burglaries at State institutions as “highly perturbing”. Just days after thieves broke into the Hawks headquarters and made off with computers and hard drives containing confidential information about staff appointments‚ burglars have broken into the Pretoria offices of the National… July 10, 2017