Nearly two decades after banning the driving of vehicles on beaches, the Department of Environment continues to battle with the problem, despite huge penalties having been imposed. According to an advertisement in yesterday’s Dispatch, driving on beaches is only for permit holders. The rap for offenders can be a fine of up to R500000, jail for up to two years or even both. The ban was first implemented in January 2002 as part of a campaign to protect the ecology of the South African coastline, and with few exceptions, only scientific researchers and tourism business operators can access the coastline by vehicle, strictly by use of a permit. Green scorpion Div de Villiers told the Daily Dispatch yesterday that although there had been a recovery in the flora and fauna, beach driving was still a serious problem throughout the province. “The main reason for instituting the controls was the impact that vehicles were having on the environment, specifically on threatened bird species such as oyster catchers,” De Villiers said. “The populations of oyster catchers [and other birds like sanderlings and white fronted plovers] have recovered since the ban. Other animals, such as ghost crabs and plough snails, were being crushed by off-road vehicles.” But it was not only animals being harmed – vehicles were also damaging the plants that stabilise sand dunes, and they were impacting on sensitive wetlands and estuaries. De Villiers said his department, the Eastern Cape Department of Economic Development, Environmental Affairs and Tourism (DEDEAT) had been enforcing the legislation since its promulgation. “Several hundred fines have been issued over the years and, although the penalties are potentially very high, admission of guilt fines are usually R2500, unless there are other contraventions coupled with the unlawful driving, like resistance to officers performing their duties.” De Villiers said they dealt with all applications for permits. This included applications for scientific research, physically disabled beach-users, fishing competitions, filming, accessing private property, and tourist operations. To report driving on beaches readers can call 086-111-2468. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za National Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom has raised concerns about the high levels of crime on Eastern Cape beaches. Hanekom was speaking to the Daily Dispatch at the official launch of tourism month at Gariep Dam in the Free State on Friday. “We’ve had a number of incidents of crime at… August 30, 2016 A rare submarine sighting in shallow waters off the coast at Morgan Bay had tourists and residents of the small seaside resort buzzing on Tuesday. Louis Butler, a tourist visiting the Wild Coast from Pretoria, said the submarine had been clearly visible on the surface about 400m from the beach… September 24, 2015 AS PART of this year’s Daily Dispatch/Windmill Fun Run/Walk, hundreds of participants will be able to make a “Penguin Promise”. The pledge will be to save the endangered African Penguin. A stand will be set up at the Orient Beach for East Londoners to make their promises, said Siani Tinley, chief… October 16, 2013