The department of education has pinned its hopes on Cuban specialists to assist the province in improving matric results, with a special focus on maths and physical science subjects. Yesterday top officials from the department welcomed four maths and science specialists from Cuba who will form part of a team of specialists to spearhead the training of thousands of teachers and subject advisers. The training will be conducted over the next five years at the department’s newly established maths and science institute in Komani (formerly Queenstown). The Cubans – known for their high-quality free education, especially in these two subjects – are a nation many countries turn to when they need expert advice on education systems. The department’s superintendent-general, Themba Kojana, said the Department of Basic Education recently signed an agreement with Cuba to share experiences of Cuban mathematics and science teachers to strengthen the South African public education system. “We took advantage of that agreement and decided to piggyback on it to ensure we bring these experts to the province,” said Kojana. The training will include developing teaching and learning materials for the curriculum, unpacking the social implications, pedagogical articulation and integration of the contents. Speaking at a welcoming event in Zwelitsha, the national co-ordinator for South Africa-Cuba collaboration, Yadileydi Hernedes Collot from Cuba, said the main objective of the programme was to impart knowledge and skills and apply competencies to targeted educators and officials at all levels. “Our priority is to work side by side with South African officials and educators, assisting them in different target areas, focusing on issues regarding teaching and learning process of mathematics and physical sciences and particularly on impacting on the quality of the lessons and learners’ performances. “We are not here because we know everything. “We only know what we know because we are qualified and education is free in Cuba. We will not impose or change existing rules. We are here to share what we know and make proposals,” said Collot. He added that the training would provide teaching and learning support materials, plan and develop teaching and learning activities, develop useful skills and attitudes, and enhance understanding. Kojana said the department was excited about the collaboration. “As you know the number of learners taking up maths has increased tremendously over the years. “That indicated to us that we needed to come up with plans to ensure that participation increases in mathematics, converted into increased performance,” said Kojana. Asked about the language barriers that might hinder the programme as Cubans mainly spoke Spanish, Kojana said, “language will never be an issue”. “Besides maths, science and technology have their own language