A payload of 200 kilograms of heroin with a street value of several million rand was seized at the Golela Border post by police on Thursday. Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said that a 50-year-old man was arrested while trying to cross the Swazi border. “Members received information about a truck which was smuggling drugs from Mozambique via Swaziland coming to South Africa. An intelligence driven operation was immediately initiated and the said truck was intercepted at Golela border post‚” he said. “A thorough search was conducted and almost 200 kilograms of heroin powder was found hidden in the back of the truck. The value is yet to be determined but is expected to run into millions of rand.” Mulaudzi said that man would appear in the Pongola Magistrate’s Court on Thursday on drug trafficking charges and bail would be opposed pending further investigations. The drugs‚ closely guarded by tactical police‚ would be transported to a secure location. This comes after a major bust at a hydroponic drug laboratory on the KZN south coast on Wednesday. Ten people were arrested this morning after they were found with heroin to the street value of more than seven million rand‚ police say. The joint operation by Durban Hawks and National Intervention Unit members made the bust at a house in Ramsgate‚ near Margate. The arrested suspects aged between… May 6, 2015 A massive Hawks and Crime Intelligence drug fighting operation turned the lives of suspected drug dealing “kingpins” upside down yesterday when they were arrested and about R5-million in cash confiscated, along with a huge amount of drugs. The raid, which took about six months to plan and execute and started… July 9, 2015 More than 20 suspected drug dealers were arrested and hundreds of thousands of rands worth of drugs confiscated in a series of widespread police raids at the weekend. The operations started on Friday and were expected to continue until today. By late yesterday police reports indicated that more than 20… January 25, 2016