The Department of Rural Development and Land Reform (DRDLR)  handed over 11 tractors and planting implements to nine co-operatives in the rural Eastern Cape on Friday. Some of those who benefited from this initiative are women who are running their co-operatives. Many of these co-ops are fully involved in grain and vegetable production and are based in a number of municipalities across the province. Minister Gugile Nkwinti handed the tractors to the co-operatives at an event that was attended by MEC of rural development and agrarian reform Mlibo Qoboshiyane, the mayor of Mnquma municipality Thobeka Bikitsha and Wiphold director, Gloria Serobe among other dignitaries. Nkwinti said the distribution of the fully equipped tractors was putting mettle into the department’s desire to see the rise of vibrant and self-sustainable rural communities which would help to ensure food security for rural communities. He said his department was prioritising rural development. “We need to revive the infrastructure of this area as we now focus on grain and vegetable production. We have 44 agri-parks in the country and here we want to make sure the products harvested here go straight to the market and that at least 70% of the profits of what is sold goes back to the people and 30% to government so that we can assist them with what they need,” said Nkwinti. He wanted the youth to be involved. “Young qualified youth must get involved in agriculture. We want them to grow with this so that we can sustain these initiatives.” The idea for the handover of the agricultural machines originated in the Freedom Charter, according to Nkwinti’s spokesman, Mtobeli Mxotwa. “Government of the day shall provide the peasants farmers with agricultural implements. These tractors will form part and parcel of the department’s mandates,” he said. Qoboshiyane said commercialisation of small farmers was important. He said his department was working with other private companies who had an interest in the province. “Currently 2800 hectares of land has been planted and we are working to make sure that the people get the skills that are needed to do the work,” said Qoboshiyane. Tanda Milling in Butterworth and fields of maize and beans plantation were also visited. At Tanda Mill, 12 silos, each with a capacity for 2000 tons of maize will be revived. “Let us turn Mnquma into an agri-hub and have agriparks for the benefit of our communities,” said Nkwinti. Many of these projects were supported by Wiphold, which has invested and ploughed hectares of land in the Centane area. Yesterday: lA Centane co-operative got a tractor from the department; lA female headed co-operative at Matyeni village in KwaBhaca got one tractor; lThree tractors were handed to Kwavezindyebo co-operative in Idutywa in the Mbhashe municipality; lOne tractor was handed to Silulwazi co-operative in Ngqamakhwe; lTwo tractors with a full set of implements were handed over to Newlands agricultural co-operative and Lyteville cooperative in Buffalo City Metropolitan; lTwo tractors were handed over to Konke Kulungile co-operative and Amabhele Aselenge Development Trust; and lOne tractor was handed over to Krugerspost’s 1Household-1Hectare project located in the Blue Crane Local Municipality. — bonganif@dispatch.co.za A partnership between a rural development trust and an East London-based investment company, has seen rural communities flourish in farming while acquiring interests in manufacturing. The Zulukama Trust, which was established in Hewu (Whittlesea), has used its investments to add value to its work in co-operatives in rural villages. The… April 29, 2016 It was a Red-letter  in Lady Frere yesterday with the launch of a  multi-million rand   initiative to support local cooperatives and boost economic development in the rural Emalahleni local municipality.The Emalahleni Rural Enterprise Development (Red) initiative was hailed by speakers at the launch in Bangindlala village as a major step to… May 22, 2015 A multimillion-rand government agro-processing programme aimed at boosting maize production in rural Mqanduli has run into difficulty. Close to R100-million was set aside by government to roll out the programme in Mqanduli and Ncora. But some farmers want to opt out, claiming they have received nothing from the agency, despite… July 20, 2015