The Democratic Alliance has welcomed what it called the long-overdue resignation of Eskom chairman Zethembe Khoza but said his resignation does not absolve him of the role he played in the decline of the parastatal. The DA’s shadow minister of public enterprises‚ Natasha Mazzone‚ said the DA would not allow Khoza‚ or any other person implicated in corruption at state-owned enterprises (SOEs) or state capture to escape the consequences. Fin24 reported on Saturday that Khoza had sent a letter of resignation to Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown on Friday but was still waiting for her to accept it. “I think it’s in [the] good interest of the country…after all the noise‚ it’s better for me‚” Fin24 quoted Khoza as saying. News of his resignation comes amid speculation that a new Eskom board will be appointed this weekend.
Mazzone said it was imperative that there was no unnecessary delay in the appointment of a new Eskom chair and CEO. “We cannot allow speculation to do even more damage to our besieged energy utility‚” she said. Mazzone said Khoza’s resignation and the leadership vacuum at Eskom “once again shows Minister Lynn Brown’s complete inability to manage our SOEs”. “The appointment of suitable and capable Chairperson and CEO is only the first step in helping ESKOM recover from the chronic mismanagement and looting which has brought the parastatal to the brink of collapse‚” she added. – TimesLIVE Source: TMG Digital. Ben Ngubane’s resignation as Eskom chairperson is highly suspicious‚ the Democratic Alliance has said. Public enterprises minister Lynne Brown announced Ngubane’s resignation‚ with immediate effect‚ late on Monday. Ngubane’s departure from Eskom comes as parliament prepares to launch an inquiry into the affairs of the state-owned enterprise‚ while the DA… June 13, 2017 By Carol Paton and Kyle Cowan Former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene and current Telkom chair Jabu Mabuza were on Friday night being considered to take over as chairman of the Eskom board. The move comes after Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa had harsh words over the state of the cash-strapped power… January 20, 2018 Parliament’s public enterprises committee believes that sufficient evidence has emerged from its inquiry into state capture of Eskom to prompt actions by Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and the Eskom board "to stop any further abuse of state resources". This is according to inquiry chairwoman Zukiswa Rantho‚ who was speaking… December 6, 2017