Scores of residents this week participated in what seemed to be the biggest land invasion BCM has ever seen.  They have illegally earmarked government and private plots along the Buffalo Pass route and the R72, just outside Cove Rock using tree stumps and red tape among other items to mark “their territory”. The land grabbing started on Monday this week with several local people leading the pack, while others came from nearby communities, many also came from afar to pin down and claim their stake of the property pie. Luxury vehicles dominated among the cars piled up along the roads as aspirant property owners took to the open land to identify a spot. BCM Mayor Xola Pakati condemned the illegal looting of land by residents saying there would be serious consequences. “I was briefed about the situation out there this morning and the directorate for planning has been out to assess. Once we have verified and confirmed ownership to the municipality, we will issue a court interdict against those land invaders. “Already there are cases of land invasion the municipality is dealing with and law enforcement is on standby to ensure that nobody places any structures on any of the land.” Buffalo City Metro has obtained a court order to interdict land invaders from occupying land owned by the council in Dorchester Heights, Cambridge West and Brakfontein among other areas. The case was heard in the East London High Court where the court ruled against those who attempted or threatened to… July 4, 2017 Buffalo City Metro is fighting a losing battle with illegal land invaders despite winning court orders to prevent the crisis from spreading. In a new report tabled last month before council by city manager Andile Sihlahla to appraise the council on steps being taken by the metro to enforce court… October 3, 2017 Businesses and residents who illegally occupied government land and properties in the Eastern Cape have until the end of next month to come clean to authorities – or face legal action. Roads and public works MEC Thandiswa Marawu warned that this formed part of the national government Operation Bring Back… November 18, 2016