Legendary jazz musician Oliver Mtukudzi‚ who already has 66 albums under his belt, is ready to give fans his 67th offering that is packed with “life lessons and an Oliver sound”. The 65-year-old said the most significant thing about his upcoming album‚ Hanya’Ga (Concern) was the message. “My 67th album is meant to share a message of introspecting and I’m hoping people learn a thing or two from it. It’s an album I wrote last year after I realised that the world keeps getting tangled up in ‘unnecessary’ problems. All because we are focused on competing and being better than the next person. “In so doing we keep stepping on each other’s toes but that is not how God created us. God meant for us to compliment each other.” Mtukudzi said that he learnt to play the guitar by experimenting and even though professional guitarists once laughed at his experiments‚ it has stood him in good stead. “I looked for a sound the guitar couldn’t make in a guitar‚ that is how I learned to play the guitar. Professional guitarist at the time use to laugh at me. I used to look for a mbira [music instrument] on the guitar strings‚ I’ve always been experimental. But it was a blessing in disguise because I went on to pioneer a sound that was later labelled Tuku music.” Oliver said that words from his mother about what makes great music always inspires him to do better. “According to my mother‚ she believed that I will never come up with a song that surpasses my birth cry. From that‚ I’ve been making music to compare to that first cry… because it probably was more than how my cry sounded. It must have been more what my birth cry meant to my mother. That is the kind of music I make.” Mtukudzi added that his music always carries the theme of self-discipline. “Culturally‚ you don’t get to sing a song when you have nothing to say. That’s how it is supposed to be. You lose the purpose of a song if it says nothing‚ you must have something to share with the people who are listening.” — DDC Gospel legend Sipho Makhabane is in the Eastern Cape to promote his 33rd album titled Sinekhaya. Makhabane started his promotion tour in Mthatha this week and was in East London and Bhisho yesterday visiting media houses. In the 13-track album, Makhabane features renowned Zimbabwean jazz musician Oliver Mtukudzi. Makhabane said… October 19, 2017 East London’s award-winning songbird Berita Khumalo has finished working on her second album, Songs of Empowerment. Coming from humble beginnings in 2012 when her debut album Conquering Spirit was released, and often being compared to Eastern Cape-born singer Zahara, the 23-year-old Metro FM afro-soul award-winner said she was excited about… November 5, 2014 Award-winning Afro-soul singer Berita Khumalo will be bringing her new sounds to East London this week. She will be singing some of her songs from her latest album at the Venue@Hemingways this Friday. Berita’s hit single Thandolwethu from her debut album Conquering Spirit set her on a wave of success, which shows no sign of… July 29, 2015