By LISEKHO MADIKANE and MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI Residents of Willasdale Drive in the affluent suburb of Bonnie Doone are up in arms following a spate of burglaries and are blaming Buffalo City Metro for not clearing a bushy field apparently used by criminals scoping out potential targets. According to the group the lush patch of ground, nestled along the banks of the Nahoon River near Batting Bridge, was last cleared by BCM in 2005. Johnny Grant, who lives near the bottom of Willasdale and who lost R200000 worth of goods in a burglary in September, has had two attempted break-ins this year. “They took my 15 pairs of expensive sneakers, a television and other electronic goods and jewellery.” Grant said he had to beef up his security system, at a price, by installing extra sensors in an effort to keep the thieves at bay. According to Grant, criminals hide out in the bush studying his family’s movements. “You can see smoke from the fires they start to keep themselves warm and provide light for themselves at night. We are terrified.” Eastern Cape police confirmed yesterday that criminals had been targeting the area. Cambridge police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said no one had been arrested over the burglary at Grant’s house. Mbi said: “SAPS can confirm that a case was registered for investigation in this matter and no arrests have been made at this stage.” Commenting on claims that there is a syndicate targeting the area, Mbi said: “The task team that was set up to tackle similar cases has made some arrests on other cases of the same modus operandi. The suspects were taken to court but the prosecutor declined to prosecute.” He said: “Anyone who can share any information that could assist us in solving these cases can contact the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Michael April on 078-452-0641 or alternatively (043)709-7502.” Grant claimed that BCM last responded to their calls to cut back the bush via e-mail three years ago. They were told at the time it would be cleared in less than 18 months. He said they were told the department comes every 18 months to clear such vegetation. A neighbour, Rie Dicks, who moved to Boonie Doone six months ago, says she feels unsafe, especially as she lives alone. “The bush is overgrown and this is an inconvenience for me because I have to leave early [for work]. “I need to be careful. I don’t know who could be hiding in that bush,” she said. Les Trollip, who lives near the bottom of Willasdale Drive, has been robbed twice, losing home appliances and furniture to the tune of R100000 each time. Trollip said a third robbery attempt was prevented after he made security upgrades. “I reported the burglaries to the police but no arrests have been made. The plot is the perfect place to hide in and to strike from. Police say there is no gang or syndicate involved in these burglaries but there is,” he said, adding that they go for “selective luxury goods. We do not sleep comfortably,” Trollip said. BCM spokesman, Samkelo Ngwenya, promised the site would be inspected some time next week and action would be programmed accordingly. He said BCM’s parks department was experiencing a backlog in terms of bush clearing and tree maintenance. “The servicing cycles are unpredictable and changes often as a result of many factors which are beyond the department’s control, ie climate change, crime, illegal dumping, etc.” Ngwenya further said: “It is not in our interest to dispute the time frames and reporting lines because ultimately, the bottom line is that the area needs to be cleared. That is why we commit that we will be investigating the complaint and will be attending to it as soon as we can as the maintenance of vegetation, including trees, is done on a first-come, first-serve basis. — lisekhom@dispatch.co.za/ malibongwed@dispatch.co.za A green war is emerging in the suburb of Gonubie over shrubs lining the coastal road. On one side are concerned residents who believe the shrubs harbour criminals and should be cut down while on the other side are scientists against destroying the bush. Fed up with a series of… April 12, 2017 Mdantsane's upmarket NU17 has become a hotspot for burglaries as the Nyibiba police station battles criminals who target affluent residents from the area. Hundreds of families said they feared their homes could be the target of criminals as police officers launched a campaign to alert home owners on how to… September 9, 2015 A group of Gompo Town residents, who call themselves “crime busters”, are on a mission to reclaim their streets, which they say have become the turf of criminals who target their homes. Chairman of the Crime Prevention Forum Ludumo Salman said crimes such as robberies and house burglaries had reached… April 16, 2016