A young actuary from the Eastern Cape is on a mission to zap the myth that maths is a complex monster that only a few can conquer. Athi Rwexu, 27, from Nahoon in East London, has designed and created a maths App called “betaSigmaX” which allows pupils and teachers and anyone and everyone to visualize maths and then understand it. Humble, hip, and finacially savvy, Rwexu nonetheless says she is not a maths genius. Her story reveals a 20-something generation young woman who has made great strides in the mystical world of maths. She was only 16 when she passed matric, at the top of her class, with distinctions in all her subjects, including maths and science. In 2007 she was awarded the Eastern Cape Premier’s Award Scholarship and studied actuarial science. Rwexu currently serves as a member of the UK Institute Faculty of Actuaries and is a member of the Actuarial Society of South Africa and a number of other actuarial associations. She is also the founder of Rtech, a start-up company based in Melrose Arch, Johannesburg, which aims to play a role in reforming Africa’s education system through technology. Rwexu is on a provincial schools’ roadshow to introduce the App. Yesterday Rwexu visited Atwell Madala High School promoting the App. Grade 12 pupil Siyamthanda Fihla said: “I want to study medicine next year and everyone knows that you need good marks. Hopefully the school will see it as an investment and get it for us.” Rwexu developed a curiosity for maths when she was seven years old. “I am definitely not a maths genius at all. I am just an appreciator of maths. I love maths and science geniuses though, like Isaac Newton, Max Plank, Marconi, and studying their work and reading their papers made me understand so much more,” said Rwexu. Rwexu said from her years of tutoring she had picked up that pupils had an attitude of fear. “There is a shortage of learners interested in Stem (science, technology, engineering and maths) degrees and careers.” Rwexu wants the App to be a fun teaching aid complete with graphics such as animations, cartoons and audio, all based on real-life scenarios. The App can be downloaded from Appstore and google playstore at a once-off cost of R299 per gadget. — Additional reporting by Zipo-Zenkosi Ncokazi An Eastern Cape teacher has been lauded as a local hero for dedicating all her spare time to helping pupils pass matric. Zonke Mbatsha, a teacher at Nyameko High School in Mdantsane, turned her Amalinda home into a classroom for pupils from a number of schools in East London. She… January 13, 2015 A teenage girl from Duncan Village beat 99 other pupils from various schools around the province when she took first place in a numeracy and literacy quiz recently. Sibulele Natuse, 13, from Nontuthuzelo Primary School in Duncan Village took part in the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica) quiz,… September 28, 2017 More than 100 pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds will receive new stationery to help them for the academic year thanks to Omega Junior. The student-driven organisation collected stationery at Vincent Park yesterday morning. Founded by current Hudson Park head boy Thando Dyasi and current Grade 11 learner Obakhe Nkohla in 2015,… January 10, 2017