January worries are a thing of the past for an East London man who is the Eastern Cape’s latest millionaire from a ticket purchased for the Lotto Plus jackpot January 10 lucky draw. The 28-year-old business owner played with R80 and won R4-million after purchasing a ticket at Shoprite Checkers in the East London CBD. He said he was at his local shop when he found out he had the winning Lotto Plus 1 ticket. He kept his winning ticket safely hidden in a pouch in his bedroom until he contacted Lotto. He said his biggest dream has been to own a house and winning the lottery has made this possible. He plans on investing the rest. He said he sees himself as a careful spender and that for him it is business as usual. He intends treating his win as if it never happened. He said he had always hoped that one day he would win, adding that if people asked him to explain his change in financial status, he would say his business was doing well. This is the second big win for the Eastern Cape in less than three months, with a Dutywa person winning R50million in November. Ithuba National Lottery spokeswoman Sandisiwe Gugushe said Ithuba offered a number of complimentary services to people with winnings above R50000. “The aim is to equip our winners with tools to best invest their winnings and to cope with this sudden life-changing event.” — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za New national lottery operator Ithuba is investigating how an Eastern Cape man was issued seven Lotto and Powerball “quickpick” tickets with the same sequence of numbers. Kuselo Mtyamde, 56, of East London is an avid Lotto player but has questioned the authenticity of the gambling game after buying the tickets… August 12, 2015 National Lottery operator Ithuba is investigating how an Eastern Cape man was issued seven Lotto and Powerball “Quick Pick” tickets with the same sequence of numbers‚ but it’s not up to it to tell the public how it happened. The Daily Dispatch on Wednesday reported that avid Lotto player Kuselo… August 13, 2015 If you played Phanda, Pusha, Play at a Spar outlet in Dutywa for last Saturday’s Lotto draw, then you could win Millions. And not just R1-million but R50-million, as the winning ticket of the November National Lottery draw was purchased at the Richardson Road Spar in the small Dutywa town. The… November 10, 2017