Only prospective students who have been offered a place to study at a tertiary institution will be considered for the fully subsidised education announced by President Jacob Zuma in December‚ higher education minister Hlengiwe Mkhize has said. Briefing the media in Pretoria on Thursday‚ the minister said this higher education funding policy‚ which would be phased in over a five-year period‚ extends the provision of higher education and training to the children of the bottom 90% of SA households provided they meet the academic admission criteria and requirements of tertiary institutions. She said consideration for funding would only be for those “that have applied for and been offered a place to study at the institution; noting that there are defined number of spaces at each institution determined by the institution’s approved enrolment plan”. The minister said government will be providing full bursaries for tuition and study materials to qualifying poor and working class students at public TVET colleges and universities but said subsidies for accommodation or transport will be capped at specific levels for those who qualify‚ starting with first time entry students in 2018. Mkhize said the phasing in of this policy would allow government to gradually phase in fully subsidised free higher education for eligible poor and working class students on a year-on-year basis in a fiscally sustainable manner. “In line with government’s commitment to opening up access to opportunities for students in the post-school education and training system‚ the department (of higher education) remains committed to the egalitarian principles of equality‚ fairness‚ justice and diversity‚” she said. Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says he is planning to stage a walk-in to register for his master’s degree at the University of the Witwatersrand‚ in support of his party’s controversial call for prospective students to invade institutions. Malema was speaking on Polokwane’s urban radio station‚ Energy FM‚… January 8, 2018 Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says he is planning to stage a walk-in to register for his Masters degree at the University of Witwatersrand‚ in support of his party’s controversial call for potential applicants who now qualify for free education to go to universities to apply in person.… January 8, 2018 Government has point-blank refused to reveal how much free higher education announced by President Jacob Zuma is likely to cost and where the money will come from‚ saying only that it will not be beyond the approved budget. The president announced in December that students from poor and working class… January 4, 2018