A pre-trial hearing in a hate speech case against Edward Zuma is expected to take place in the Equality Court in Durban on Tuesday. The SA Human Rights Commission wants the court to find President Jacob Zuma’s son guilty of hate speech and fine him R100 000 for comments he made in an open letter to Derek Hanekom and Pravin Gordhan in July last year. In the letter‚ Zuma described the pair as sell outs and stooges who “have brazenly and unabashedly spoken out against (President) Zuma on various white monopoly media platforms”. He said the pair were deliberately against government programmes that were meant to “advance the lives of the natives and particularly black people of this country”. He said Gordhan was one of the most corrupt cadres who‚ just like Gandhi‚ “sees black South Africans as low class k……s”. He said of Hanekom that he “was no better than a vile dog trained to maul our black skin”. Zuma has apologised to the pair and to the ANC. However‚ the commission said it was bringing the application as a matter of public interest. President Jacob Zuma’s defiant son Edward took his fight with Pravin Gordhan from open letters to a face-to-face confrontation when he and a group of his companions stood up and disrupted the axed finance minister’s speech in Pietermaritzburg on Friday night. In the verbal confrontation‚ Zuma called Gordhan a "liar".… August 26, 2017 President Jacob Zuma’s controversial son‚ Edward‚ has made a dramatic u-turn about his apology to senior African National Congress leaders Pravin Gordhan and Derek Hanekom‚ saying he did not apologise to them but to the party. Edward’s about-turn came just a day after his father decried ANC MPs who voted… August 15, 2017 The SA Human Rights Commission says it will investigate President Jacob Zuma’s son‚ Edward‚ for his open letter to former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and former tourism minister Derek Hanekom. “The Commission has become aware of an open letter purported to have been authored by Mr Edward Zuma. The Commission… July 28, 2017