The ANC newly-elected national executive committee (NEC) will next Tuesday visit the grave site where South Africa’s first democratic president Nelson Mandela was laid to rest in Qunu. This as the governing party continues with build ups towards  the 106 anniversary celebration set for Buffalo City Stadium in East London next week Saturday. But Mandela’s grave will not be the only one visited by the  ANC which starts the year with an overdrive of graveyard visits to consult ancestors in the form of its former president. Speaking in East London today, outgoing ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said the new leadership will also be visiting the  graves of three other former ANC presidents namely Oliver  Tambo on Friday in East Rand; John Dube and Albert Luthuli in KwaZulu Natal on Monday. According to Kodwa, this will be to thank the spirit of these  ancestors for their guidance of the ANC during difficult time, in  particular the “peaceful and successful” 54th National Conference held last month in Nasrec. But also, this will be a call on the dead to continue guiding the ANC as it is headed for a new start that resumes on January 13  where new president Cyril Ramaphosa is scheduled to make  his first public address in that position. Asked how the ANC was going to access Mandela graveyard  which remains closed to the public, Kodwa said they were in consultation with the family, including the rest of the other  families of Tambo, Dube and Luthuli. After the visit to Mandela’s grave on Tuesday, the ANC NEC  will proceed to East London for their very first official meeting since their election in Nasrec. Top of the agenda will be the election of the national working  committee (NWC) as well as the final briefing on the state of readiness for the anniversary festivities. Kodwa said the ANC was confident that the EC, as “the home of the ANC”, will not disappoint by making this celebration a memorable one.  “There are very few organisation that can survive 106 years of existence and the ANC is very thankful to the supporters and members and we urge them to come to East  London and celebrate with their organisation,” said Kodwa. “The officials of the ANC led by president Ramaphosa will be part of the mobilisation for the 106 anniversary celebrations first up (tomorrow) they will visit the visit the grave site of OR Tambo to report back on the conclusion of last year which we  declared the year of OR and also about the successful conference we held.” Not only will the ANC be visiting the dead but also the living as Kodwa also added that the Ramaphosa and company will  invade Nongoma on Sunday to visit the Zulu monarch King  Goodwill Zwelithini. “We will report also to the king about the successful  conference that we held and at the same time to commit  ourselves to the values of traditional leadership,” said Kod wa. According to Kodwa, this anniversary celebration would also  provide an opportune moment for the ANC to reflect, especially  after the “hope” that emerged with the election of Ramaphosa  as party head in the Nasrec conference.— zingisam@dispatch.co.za A High-powered delegation of senior ANC leaders will visit the embattled Buffalo City Metro, where political infighting has spilled over into council chambers.Yesterday,  the BCM city council meeting called by mayor Zukiswa Ncitha to remove municipal manager Andile Fani collapsed spectacularly when up to 28 ANC councillors failed to pitch… May 23, 2015 ANC top brass descended on the Eastern Cape yesterday in a fact-finding mission after complaints from premier Phumulo Masualle and his supporters. They are questioning the legitimacy of events leading to the election of Oscar Mabuyane as the province’s new ANC chairman and his executive earlier this month. Masualle and… October 30, 2017 DIGNITARIES attending former president Nelson Mandela's funeral started arriving at the East London and Mthatha airports on Saturday. Most of the high profile personalities are ANC linked high ranking politicians including cabinet minister of higher education Blade Nzimande. Agriculture forestry and fisheries minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson came in through the East… December 14, 2013