The ANC’S birthday bash brought in R150-million worth of business for Buffalo City, BCM spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya said yesterday. Business in the province is looking ahead at the spin-offs of the ruling party announcing that 2018 will be the year of Nelson Mandela, with the ANC calling on the city to build more hotels and create more B&Bs. The party’s January 8 statement, read out by new ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa, attracted a crowd of 200000, said Ngwenya, which included well-heeled party members who spent money at retail stores, hotels, petrol stations, businesses, and accommodation establishments. The mass of ANC members and supporters also contributed to taxi and bus income. Ngwenya said BCM’s figures were based on a report compiled by Grant Thornton accounting company. From this, BCM was able to deduce that the event contributed R44-million to GDP and this was expected to rise to R51-million. He said the money was spent in the tourism, hospitality, accommodation, transport and leisure sectors. Informal traders benefited, with street vendors, hawkers, car washers and car guards “cashing in”. “Demand for cash was so high we had cash speed point [machines] on the doorstep of city hall and on the beachfront.” Air flights into and out of the city had to be increased, and this had taken some negotiation. The economic spin-offs stretched beyond Buffalo City, and were felt on the East Coast at Chintsa, as well as the Sunshine Coast at Port Alfred. Olwethu Hoyana, owner of OhBrigado Champagne Bar, said: “This was the best turnover we have ever made. We increased our turnover by 400% over the four days.” Black Business Forum provincial convener Luthando Bara said the impact of the celebrations on businesses was massively positive. Now the provincial government and the metro had to step in and capitalise on the momentum and capacitate people in tourism and grow the sector. “Jobs have been created, albeit temporary, companies that could have struggled have been given a new lease of life and students who could have gone back to school without money will now have money,” Bara said. He said his members were looking forward to the centenary celebrations of the late statesman, Nelson Mandela. The ANC has declared 2018 as the Year of Mandela, while 2017 was the year of OR Tambo. Bara said although the city was “the best” when it came to offering entertainment, its readiness was tested. Border Kei Chamber of Business director Les Holbrook said: “It was a bumper heyday for business.” He said the January 8 celebrations did not happen often in one province but when it happened it was a big opportunity for businesses. Holbrook said the buildup programmes to the event and beyond were great for the city. Rabco Frimmel, manager at Ultra Liquors, said the turnover was significant and compared well when measured against turnover throughout the festive season. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi said the economic spin-offs extended beyond East London. He said the provincial executive committee (PEC) had foreseen huge turnovers for businesses. Visitors would eat, sleep and refuel in East London. He said the PEC was elated with businesses having made gains during the celebrations and the buildup. “There are, however, lessons to be learnt from this. We have no adequately capacitated stadium to host events of this nature and we need that. There are not enough hotels and B&Bs in East London and we need to develop capacity for such capabilities,” he said. He said the economic spins-offs extended beyond the formal business sector to vendors and ordinary citizens who rented out their homes. Ngcukayitobi said ANC members and supporters who descended on the province and the city were excited about being in East London. He thanked East Londoners for being great hosts. Ngcukayitobi said the PEC was all for growing businesses and helping with growing the economy of the country. — zolilem@tisoblackstar.co.za