Concerned  Buffalo City Metro residents have complained about brazen thieves who are stealing and stripping palisade fencing around some of the metro’s facilities. Some of the targeted facilities reported this week to the Saturday Dispatch by resident Nontuthuzelo Zuba include the Amalinda Stadium, the popular Marina Glen area where thieves have reportedly made off with palisade fencing opposite the Buffalo Park Cricket Stadium and some fencing around the popular Ebuhlanti hangout spot. Zuba said the ongoing lawlessness was a concern. “This is troubling my eyes and the municipality is not taking any action because it is continuing. “The fences are stripped under our watch in these areas opposite Buccaneers and Buffalo Park Cricket Stadium and now they are stripping in Ebuhlanti and at the Bush Buck Stadium [Amalinda Stadium]. “This is worrying because this is our money as ratepayers. BCM must put measures in place because this thing is spreading. Maybe the mayor [Xola Pakati] and his committee do not go into these areas, but this problem is in full view,” she said. When the Dispatch visited the areas yesterday, gaps could be seen where the fence had either been vandalised, broken or stolen. BCM spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya said the metro was aware of the “problem of fencing being stolen”. “It has been reported to SAPS to investigate and insurance claims are submitted where applicable. “We are currently doing an exercise to determine the best mechanism to deliver security services. “When the exercise is complete, [a] decision will be made on security provision. Our public safety department is also working with the security agencies on the matter,” Ngwenya said. He said the issue of vandalism affected the metro badly and was a “societal cancer that must be uprooted and the starting point is when the community report those behind it”. Amalinda resident Sisonke Mbana said: “Sometimes residents don’t know what they want because the fencing was provided but it is being stripped and they are using the gap as a pathway. The police should really assist us with these things because palisade fencing is very expensive and they should look in scrap yards where some of these things are sold.” Ward 47 (which includes Quigney) councillor Vusumzi Njece said the metro had R2-million to spend on the rehabilitation of Ebuhlanti in this financial year and the issue of fencing would be considered. “We are aware of the problem and working on it. We have also noticed the toilets in the area are often vandalised with people living there, so this is part of a broader problem we are trying to attend to. We would like to have security in that area but that is yet to be finalised.” — mamelag@dispatch.co.za