The gruesome discovery of a 23-year-old woman’s lifeless body has left the Mdantsane community and her family in grief in what is suspected to be a rape and murder case. Zandile Nyakombi’s body was found on Sunday morning near the Nontyatyambo Health Centre, less than a kilometre from her NU3 home by a passerby, according to police. Her family last saw her on Saturday evening when she went out “to have fun”. However, what was supposed to be a fun night out ended in tragedy when her body was found with her pants and panties off and with several bruises. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said the police are investigating a case of murder and have put a task team of “experienced detectives” to speed up the investigation with urgency it deserves. “The body was found with stab wounds and a post mortem will be conducted to establish more causes,” said Mbi, adding that the investigation would determine whether one suspect or more were involved while a postmortem will reveal if Nyakombi was raped or not.  No arrest has been made and the police have pleaded that anyone with information should contact the Mdantsane detectives on 043-708-7000 or 0860-010-111. The brother of a Mdantsane woman found raped and murdered last year has surrendered to police in connection with her killing. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said before Ayanda Bolosha, 21, handed himself in on Monday, they had neither suspect nor lead more than a year after the murder.  … August 20, 2015 An autistic man spent three days living with his dead mother after she had been shot in the head. Police are now searching for the other son of Nonkululeko Swartbooi, 61, in connection with the shooting, believed to have been on Thursday. A neighbour found her body on Sunday. Police spokesman… April 30, 2015 A Beacon Bay woman unwittingly led police to the body of a Mdantsane taxi driver who had been hijacked and later murdered in Cambridge on Sunday evening. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi, said the 27-year-old driver, who cannot be named until his next-of-kin have identified him, was hijacked in NU9. He… June 21, 2016