The failure by the ANC NEC and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa to recall Jacob Zuma on Wednesday only proves that the ANC is incapable of change‚ the Democratic Alliance says. DA national spokesperson Phumzile Van Damme said Zuma and his “cabal of corrupt cronies” had wreaked havoc on the country. “He has made reckless decisions‚ destroyed key public institutions‚ weakened our democracy and ruined our economy‚ all under the noses of the ANC leadership. “Yet‚ despite all of Zuma’s indiscretions‚ Ramaphosa has failed to recall him showing that the ANC will not self-correct and that we can only expect more of the same‚” Van Damme asserted. She said that if Ramaphosa was truly serious about rooting out corruption‚ Zuma would no longer be the president of South Africa. “South Africans deserve a capable President who will act in their best interest at all times‚ not someone who abuses their power and steals from the people. “It is quite clear that Ramaphosa is not equal to the task of getting rid Zuma as the majority of the ANC is still made up of corrupt and selfish leaders who put filling their own pockets before the needs of the people‚” Van Damme said. She added that the DA would continue to pursue every possible avenue to hold Zuma accountable for the 783 counts of corruption against him as well as his role in state capture. By RANJENI MUNUSAMY and ZINGISA MVUMVU The ANC is finally in position to pin down President Jacob Zuma and now has the ability to hold him accountable and recall him from office. With Cyril Ramphosa’s election as ANC president, Zuma holds no position or authority in the party and therefore… December 21, 2017 South Africans are a truly resilient bunch. That resilience, I suspect stems from their fiercely optimistic attitude towards life. How else can you explain the massive jolt of hope brought about by the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as new ANC president? Maybe Jacob Zuma’s presidency of the ANC and the… January 3, 2018 ANC members of parliament are at a crossroads. What do they do? Should they vote against the motion of no-confidence tabled against their party leader, President Jacob Zuma, and retain a president who appears to behave more like a deployee of the Gupta family than a deployee of the ANC?… April 25, 2017