By: Stephan Hofstatter And Sikonathi Mantshantsha Suspended Eskom chief financial officer Anoj Singh signed a secret deal binding the cash-strapped utility to pay a R400m “signature fee” to an obscure offshore entity for raising a $2bn loan from China to build or refurbish power stations. Correspondence seen by Business Day suggests that officials in Eskom’s finance and legal divisions suspected the fee might be a disguised kickback. Eskom was invoiced for a portion of the fee‚ but it has not been disbursed. In entering into this transaction with Huarong Energy Africa in March 2017‚ Singh ignored legal advice by an independent law firm and other officials in the power utility‚ who said the terms were onerous and “ambiguous at best”. Documents‚ including a “term sheet”‚ signed by Singh‚ a legal opinion from law firm White & Case and correspondence among Eskom officials — all seen by Business Day — suggest proper supply chain and approval processes were not followed and that the transaction could be deemed unlawful‚ raising the spectre of a rerun of the Trillian and McKinsey debacle. Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/energy/2018-01-19-anoj-singh-signed-secret-r400m-raising-fee-at-eskom/ By Stephan Hofstatter and Sikonathi Mantshantsha Eskom chief financial officer Anoj Singh is allegedly behind the power utility’s lies when it defended payments of R1.6bn to Gupta-linked financial advisory firm Trillian and global consultancy McKinsey. Eskom admitted on Monday morning that it had lied to Business Day and other media… August 29, 2017 By: Stephan Hofstatter And Sikonathi Mantshantsha Eskom chief financial officer Anoj Singh is allegedly behind the power utility’s lies when it defended payments of R1.6bn to Gupta-linked financial advisory firm Trillian and global consultancy McKinsey. Eskom admitted on Monday morning that it had lied to Business Day and other media… August 29, 2017 By: Stephan Hofstatter And Sikonathi Mantshantsha A bloodbath looms at Eskom as new evidence emerges of possible criminal wrongdoing in the power utility’s R1.6bn deal with McKinsey and Gupta-linked Trillian. The utility is understood to be in the process of charging at least three senior managers and two senior executives… September 22, 2017