By SIMTHANDILE FORD and KATHARINE CHILD Eastern Cape universities have vowed to stick to their application and registration processes and won’t admit walk-ins. Nationally, the EFF continues to call for potential students to walk in at universities to apply for places‚ following President Jacob Zuma’s announcement of free university education for the working class. Applications to study at SA universities closed last year and there are fears that that “political stunts” will lead to university protests. The party said it would make sure its members were at the entrances of universities to force them to take more students‚ even after Universities South Africa‚ a body representing the country’s 26 universities‚ warned no walk-ins would be accepted. Surprising universities and the Treasury‚ Zuma announced free tuition for students of families earning less than R350 000 a year on December 16. But on Tuesday‚ Universities SA slammed politicians’ behaviour, calling it “political football”. The body went so far as to warn of violence if walk-in students arrived‚ and mentioned the deadly stampede that crushed an applicant’s parent to death at the University of Johannesburg in 2012. But EFF general-secretary Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said on Twitter that all academically qualifying students needed to be accommodated. He tweeted: “Authorities should not blame students who did not apply for universities when they know very well that many did not even think of applying due to lack of funds. There must be plans in place to consider all applications‚ allowing the poor to take advantage of free education.” But on Tuesday‚ Minister of Higher Education Hlengiwe Mkhize told eNCA: “There is no way in which a person can walk in and expect to be registered. There is no way to assume that because you have money you can just go to that particular faculty. There is always criteria people have to meet.” DA spokesperson on education Belinda Bozzoli‚ formerly a deputy vice-chancellor at Wits‚ said the number of places at universities was worked out in advance with very specialised algorithms taking into account staff‚ lecture halls and other capacity. She accused the EFF‚ who knew this‚ of “playing games with students’ futures”. It is not yet known how the Treasury will fund the free tuition for students whose households earn below R350000. Universities are waiting for the annual budget speech‚ which takes place after registration at campuses begins. The “political stunts” could lead to protests‚ warned Bozzoli. “It is very‚ very serious. This is horrific really. The whole thing is a mess. “Ultimately‚ President Jacob Zuma is to blame. He is reckless and irresponsible. He created a gap and the Economic Freedom Front took it.” Eastern Cape universities yesterday expressed disappointment with the EFF’s call. Walter Sisulu University, which is allowed to take 7500 students, most of them from the rural schools, said they feared being swamped. WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo said following the UJ stampede, all universities were advised to do away with walk-in admissions. She said universities had procedures in place which had to be respected. “Students must follow proper processes which involve the applications, processing of those applications and the verification of results. All those steps must be followed. We get worried when students are told to come in masses because we fear we may not be able to control the masses if they come.” University of Fort Hare’s Khotso Moabi said it had a strict policy that it would not take walk-ins. “We are not expecting any masses. On the day we open we are expecting students who have been accepted to come and finalise their processes,” said Moabi. Nelson Mandela University spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela declined to comment as she was still on leave. Rhodes University spokeswoman Nandipha Kutala could not comment. — simthandilef@dispatch.co.za Eastern Cape universities will be forced to turn away thousands of prospective first-year students, even if they achieve good matric results. At Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) alone, spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela said they had received more than 112000 first-year applications for the new academic year, although they would be able… January 5, 2017 The Economic Freedom Front continues to call for potential students to walk in at universities to apply for places‚ following President Jacob Zuma's announcement of free university education for the working class. However‚ applications for universities closed last year and people are fearful that "political stunts" will lead to university… January 3, 2018 THIRTEEN Eastern Cape matric pupils were caught allegedly cheating during the final exams last year. This was announced by education MEC Mandla Makupula at a gala dinner to award the best performing pupils at the International Convention Centre (ICC) on Tuesday night. Makupula said despite the province’s record of having… January 9, 2014