Bafana Bafana footballer Itumeleng Khune has hit back at a fan’s suggestion that the star snubbed him when asked for a picture‚ telling the person to “appreciate the small things in life”. The fan claimed that Khune refused to take a picture with him after a football match this week. He said he was mocked because of the ‘snub’ and apparently even had difficulty sleeping. “I was mocked because I’m one of your biggest fans‚ so they (his friends) laughed at me and told me not to try that again my brother. But I’m okay now that I told you how I felt and that I couldn’t sleep well.” While fans tried to encourage the fan to get over the disappointment‚ Khune responded to the claim by explaining that he already told the fan why he could not pose for a picture. “But I told you I was injured and couldn’t smile. What was so difficult to understand?” He went on to encourage the fan to be grateful. “At least I gave you my time. Appreciate small things in life.” Khune has been working hard on his fitness and posted pictures of himself working up a sweat‚ so he was obviously not losing sleep over the “snub”. #TeamNoRest…Not everyone will understand your journey, and that’s OK. Focus on moving forward not what others think #TeamNike #Team16_32 #PassionDriven #GODisGREAT A post shared by  itukhune32 (@itukhune32) on Jan 22, 2018 at 4:02am PST To Success – – -> HARDWORK #TeamNike #Team16_32 #TeamNoRest #PassionDriven #GODisGreat A post shared by  itukhune32 (@itukhune32) on Jan 22, 2018 at 8:19am PST  Goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune admits the hype that usually surrounds the clash between South Africa and Nigeria affects Bafana Bafana players mentally and they end up buckling under the pressure. Bafana have never beaten Nigeria in a competitive match and the countries are set for another battle, in an international friendly… March 28, 2015 The Naturena soap opera is finally over after goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune agreed to rejoin Kaizer Chiefs yesterday. The drawnout saga – which first saw Khune, defender Tefu Mashamaite and winger Mandla Masango all told they can leave by the club earlier last month – produced a new twist when one… July 31, 2015 It took the help of a sports psychologist for Bafana Bafana players to regain their composure and belief that they had talent in abundance to beat Burkina Faso 3-1 at FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Bafana stand-in captain Itumeleng Khune and coach Stuart Baxter revealed that their extra weapon during… October 8, 2017