Here is how Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini evaded questions at the inquiry into the social grants crisis. Since the start of the inquiry Dlamini was described as being “unresponsive and evasive”. Here is a list of instances where Dlamini made snide remarks instead of answering questions. 1. She was asked to comment on former social development director general Zane Dangor’s claim that she never took advice from him in relation to the workstreams she had set up to take over the payment of grants. She replied: “It depends how you define meetings.” She then refused to answer the question. 2. When asked about former SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) chief executive Thokozani Magwaza‚ her response was: “Waqala nini? (When did he start?). 3. She was also asked whether Dangor and Magwaza had been senior officials at the social development department and Sassa respectively. Dlamini said: “Seniority goes with responsibility.” 4. When Dlamini was asked to tell the inquiry how her department had acquired the leaders of the workstreams‚ she gave a long-winded answer that bore no relation to the issue. When pressed to answer the question‚ she said: “I don’t like to be pushed around.” 5. In her several attempts of evading questions‚ Dlamini said to one of the lawyers: “There are nuances you are making that I don’t like.”  Former South African Social Security Agency chief executive Thokozani Magwaza has accused social development minister Bathabile Dlamini of running Sassa like her own shop. “The problem is that the minister was running Sassa as her shop.She disturbed the smooth running of the organisation‚” Magwaza told an inquiry into Dlamini’s role… January 26, 2018 Social development minister Bathabile Dlamini is set to face tough questions from former SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) director general Zane Dangor on Thursday. Dlamini is appearing at an inquiry that is investigating her role in the social grants crisis. She has maintained throughout the week that she cannot be… January 25, 2018 Minutes into a hearing on the social grants saga‚ social development minister Bathabile Dlamini was involved in a standoff with the legal counsel of her former director general. Since the start of the inquiry Dlamini has been chastised by retired judge Bernard Ngoepe for not answering questions put to her.… January 25, 2018