Pupils from a rural Eastern Cape school will now have access to science laboratory kits – thanks to a donation from a foundation that hopes to uplift the community.   Mxhume Junior Secondary School in Lambasi village in Lusikisiki has been chosen as the lucky recipients of this year’s donation from the Baphumze Rubuluza Education and Rural Development (BREARD). The 20 science lab kits will be donated to the school on January 15 during an education department awards ceremony. The donation comes after the successful completion of an 80km hike by members of the organisation in Mpondoland during the festive season. The donation is a welcome development for the remote school as pupils previously did not have access to science lab kits, making it difficult for them to do practical work. The school, which has a science lab but no equipment, had previously borrowed equipment from neighbouring schools, something that will now be a thing of the past. The hikers are all from the Ingquza Hill municipal areas of Lusikisiki and Flagstaff, said BREARD founder Baphumze Rubuluza. Rubuluza said the kits would also benefit pupils from neighbouring schools. “The reason we donated the science kits to Mxhume specifically is because it is the closest to five villages – Maqulu, Xolobeni, Mnyameni, Kwarole and Ndongane – and they are known to have the worst results in the district,” he said. It is hoped the kits will help to improve the school’s pass rate for the 2018 class. To try and ensure this happens, the organisation’s volunteers will go to the school twice a month to tutor pupils in maths and science. Every year in July they organise a career expo for matrics, and pupils from the 32 high schools in the district attend to receive assistance in choosing suitable careers. School principal Aaron Lindi said the donation would go a long way to levelling the playing fields with other schools. “We do have a science lab which was recently built for us but we did not have any equipment. We had to borrow from neighbouring schools. “So this donation will help us a lot. We are happy now that we will be getting the science lab kits. This is the first year that we are introducing Grade 12 at school, so we are very happy about this donation,” he said. Libode education circuit manager Tembalihle Mdutshane they were aware of the planned donation from BREARD. — lisekhom@dispatch.co.za Pupils from a rural school in Lower Gqumashe location in Alice have been boosted following the donation of a fully-equipped science lab. Now they will no longer just read or look at images of science experiments in their textbooks, but will now have a chance to do the actual experiments.… November 8, 2017 THE name impendulo (the answer) says it all. While many spend hours talking about what should be done to improve the province’s underwhelming school results or the performance of rural pupils in maths and science, members of the Impendulo Foundation are not only preaching what can be done but putting… March 5, 2017 A month after being named the second best science teacher in the country despite not having equipment, Sophathisana Secondary School science teacher Mphikeleli Botomani yesterdayreceived a fully stocked laboratory. Donated to the school by East London’s East Coast Asphalt, the lab was installed for R300000 and officially handed to the… May 13, 2015