Zimbabwean fugitive Norman Mukunuwendo, 21, yesterday pleaded guilty to escaping from the Mdantsane correctional facility earlier this month. He was one of four dangerous criminals who escaped on January 10. Only Lihle Zikholisile, 19, from Mthatha, has not been caught and returned to jail. Justice was swift for escapee Phikolomzi Sonakele. On Thursday Mdantsane Magistrate Johané Grootboom sentenced him to three years in prison for the escape. Mukunuwendo appeared briefly before Grootboom yesterday after he was arrested in a dramatic swoop by the Gauteng police in Pretoria last week while trying to catch a bus to Harare. Mukunuwendo is serving a 15-year sentence for armed robbery with aggravating circumstances and possession of an unlicenced firearm and ammunition. His attorney, Zikhona Mzizi, told Grootboom her client was never part of the escape plan and only joined in when it was on. Mzizi blamed Sonakele for unlocking two metal doors with a spoon. Grootboom postponed the matter to February 9 for the court to collect Mukunuwendo’s criminal records. He was returned to jail. Mzizi told the court that once Mukunuwendo and other escapees were outside the boundary fence of the NU 12 facility, they went their separate ways. She said Mukunuwendo then hitch-hiked and got a lift to the CBD and stood in front of the Fleet Street police station and hitched a ride in a truck to Port Elizabeth and then to family in Uitenage. Sonakele, 23, from Mqanduli, was re-arrested on January 19, three days after the re-arrest of fellow escapee Sandile Vena, 22, from King William’s Town. Vena will be sentenced on March 8. The alleged mastermind of the prison break, Sonakele was serving a 12-year sentence for robbery with aggravating circumstances. He was due to appear in the Mqanduli Magistrate’s Court on February 14 on rape charges. — malibongwed@ dispatch.co.za A third prisoner has been re-arrested after four of them escaped from the Mdantsane medium facility on January 10. Zimbabwean national Norman Mukunuwendo, 21, was apprehended by the Gauteng police in Pretoria last Wednesday while trying to skip the country. Only one fugitive – Phikolomzi Sonakele from Mqanduli – remains… January 30, 2018 Justice was swift in apprehending  and sentencing a convict who escaped police custody two weeks ago with his friend at the Mdantsane Magistrate’s court. Thabani Mkokheli,30, has been sentenced to two years imprisonment after escaping at the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court earlier this month, with his co-partner Lulekani Somtsora, 25. The… October 25, 2017 Thirteen Mdantsane prison warders are facing a disciplinary hearing after the daring MacGyver-style escape of four of the Eastern Cape’s most vicious prisoners yesterday morning. If authorities are to believed, in less than 60 minutes the four murderers, rapists and robbers unscrewed two prison doors, clambered like Spider-men up and… January 11, 2018