South African men have a better chance of finding their romantic partners online‚ a study has found. According to an international dating website‚ Wogoal‚ South African men are the 13th luckiest in the world in online dating. As it happens‚ South African women are among the most communicative on dating websites‚ also ranked at 13‚ Wogoal said. The research concluded that South African men have above average chances of meeting a partner online. The study focused on six months of exchanges between men and women from 60 countries. Depending on what they talked about or how long they interacted‚ the website could determine which country is more active. The number one country where people found love online was Egypt‚ followed by Indonesia‚ then Nigeria‚ Ghana and the Philippines. “The most difficult country a man can choose for online dating is Ireland. Only 6 percent replied to a message. And those were mostly migrants who just moved to Ireland. The chance to meet a native Irish lady through an online dating website was almost zero‚” the research noted. Nigerians were most likely to get a reply from a woman via a dating website‚ with the top value of 75 percent. Most women in Bulgaria and Colombia were recorded to have lost interest after the first message. The findings were released in December. Almost two out of every three South Africans (65%) who are 16 years or older are now connected to the internet while four out of every 10 South Africans access the internet daily (42%). This is slightly ahead of Nigeria (63%) and Kenya (53%). This is according to new research… November 20, 2017 Many couples have dispensed with the heart-shaped balloons, chocolates and flowers that were once synonymous with Valentine’s Day and are keeping their love affair alive in a different way. Sex toys and lingerie, though by no means new to the South African market, are now making it to the top of… February 14, 2017 More than half a million South Africans contracted HIV last year. Although South Africa had recorded a slight decline - about 0.03% - in the average number of infections between 2005 and 2015, hundreds of thousands of people are still being infected each year, according to a report released yesterday… July 20, 2016