United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa has put aside his political differences and has called on opposition parties to “unite” against President Jacob Zuma and not allow him to deliver the State of the Nation Address (Sona). Zuma is expected to deliver the Sona on February 8 but opposition parties have said it would be in the best interests of South Africa if he does not deliver it. “We have called on the parties through a letter and some have responded. It is not in our interest that Zuma should open Parliament again…please‚” Holomisa told TimesLIVE. Holomisa said the Economic Freedom Fighters‚ African Christian Democratic Party and Congress of the People were the only parties that had agreed to this meeting which would take place on Friday. “We need to discuss the call by the EFF for a motion of no confidence‚ the Sona and what position are we going to participate in. I hear the DA is saying the Sona must be postponed… so these are different views and parties are free to express them but at the end of the day‚ if we meet on Friday‚ we might come up with one position‚” said Holomisa. Earlier on Wednesday‚ Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane wrote to National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete requesting that the event be postponed until Zuma is removed from office and Parliament elects a new head of state. Parliament later responded‚ saying: “As Sona is a joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament‚ and the request directly affects them‚ both the Speaker of the National Assembly and the Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces will consider the correspondence and reply accordingly.” Parliamentary spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said a joint sitting of Parliament on the Sona is called by the President of the country in terms of the Constitution‚ through the presiding officers‚ and is scheduled by the multiparty joint programme committee. He said in applying their minds‚ the presiding officers would therefore take into consideration all of these factors. In terms of the constitution‚ Zuma cannot be impeached between now and February 8‚ but a vote of no confidence can take place before that.   SA President Jacob Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa put on a united face at the extended Cabinet Lekgotla currently taking place at the presidential guesthouse‚ in Tshwane. This as opposition parties signalled they are planning their moves to challenge Zuma ahead of his scheduled State of the Nation Address… January 31, 2018 A PLAN to challenge the ANC in next year’s national elections by forming a coalition of opposition parties has collapsed after one of the major players opted to go it alone. United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa announced the planned coalition earlier this year but since then it has gone… June 5, 2013 United Democratic Movement president Bantu Holomisa yesterday blasted the ANC led-government and President Jacob Zuma accusing them of being self-serving thieves who did not care about their constituents. Holomisa told a group of about 50 people of all ages in Dimbaza yesterday to punish the ANC in the upcoming elections… March 29, 2016