The judicial inquiry into state capture cannot start work because the regulations governing it have yet to be signed off by President Jacob Zuma‚ even though the terms of reference were gazetted on Thursday. However‚ the parliamentary inquiry into Eskom is set to heat up in March when the Gupta family and Zuma’s son‚ Duduzane‚ will be in the hot seat‚ the chairwoman of the portfolio committee on public enterprises‚ Zukiswa Rantho‚ confirmed to Business Day on Sunday. Rantho said the Guptas and “associates”‚ which she said included Duduzane‚ were scheduled to appear before the committee in March. The coming week is set to include testimony from former Passenger Rail Agency of SA CE Lucky Montana as well as former energy minister and current Deputy Public Enterprises Minister Ben Martins. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo‚ who will head the commission of inquiry into state capture‚ said last week that he needed the terms of reference and the regulations to guide the commission before it could start its work. Although Zondo has received draft regulations‚ Zuma‚ who has been attending the African Union summit in Addis Ababa‚ has not yet signed these. Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/national/2018-01-29-state-capture-probe-in-limbo-as-president-must-sign-off-on-rules/ Gupta brothers Ajay and Atul as well as President Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane have been listed as potential witnesses in the upcoming parliamentary inquiry into Eskom procurement deals and state capture. The National Assembly’s public enterprises committee met on Wednesday to discuss the terms of reference and potential witnesses to… June 21, 2017 Parliament's inquiry into state capture will invite the Gupta brothers‚ Salim Essa‚ Eric Wood‚ Duduzane Zuma and Dudu Myeni to appear before it. Following weeks of evidence in which the Gupta brothers‚ Essa‚ Duduzane Zuma and Wood have regularly been named‚ ACDP MP Steve Swart proposed that they be subpoenaed… November 23, 2017 The Pandora’s Box on state capture has officially been cranked open‚ with a preliminary hearing by parliament’s public enterprises portfolio committee being told that there is “mafia-style nefarious control of state-owned enterprises by an elite that is pivoted around the president of the republic”. The committee is preparing for a… July 26, 2017