Masimanyane Women’s Support Centre has acquired a multimillion rand shelter which will allow it to accommodate more women and young girls who have been affected by violence and abuse.  The five-bedroom house with three bathrooms, a spacious lounge, kitchen, dining and entertainment room in East London, is funded by the National Lottery at a cost of R2.3million. Although the property was purchased in November last year, Masimanyane only received transfer of the property on Wednesday. Shelter manager Chrislyn Moonieyan said the new house, the first to be owned by the international organisation, had a bigger yard which allowed for more therapeutic, recreational activities. “It’s a beautiful home, not just another facility, and it has got a lot of space which will allow for us to have a workshop to engage the women and children who come to the shelter with activities. “It has a beautiful, tranquil garden, which is in itself a healing space. We also have a large outside room which will be used as a training and skills development space, and it allows for us to have two offices. “Late last year we appealed to the public to sponsor a room at R10 000 and the response was great – all rooms have been sponsored, but there is still so much that we need,” she said. Moonieyan said they still need lounge suites, curtains, bedding, outdoor furniture and anything that could make the shelter a really safe and comfortable space for women in distress. “More women are getting to know their rights and are opening up about their experiences and have seen the need to come in to get the necessary support they need to deal with what they have gone through and to come out stronger.” Masimanyane director Lesley Ann Foster said the move to the bigger house required them to increase their security measures. “At the moment we have eight women in our care, but the new property can help us accommodate 14 women and their children. It’s a significant increase. “Women who are battered and abused within domestic relationships and those who are in danger and fear for their safety or life with no place to go are eligible to live in the temporary shelter. “Women with children are welcome at the shelter. However, only boys up to the age of 12 are admitted. If a woman has sons older than 12, we will assist her to find alternative safe accommodation for him.” Foster said they had counsellors and offices at Fleet Street Police Station, Cambridge Police Station, Buffalo Flats Police Station and Duncan Village Police Station as well as at the East London Magistrate’s Court, among other institutions. “A telephone call, as well as a written referral, must be given, including a description of the circumstances that led to the first contact. “All relevant information pertaining to the case opened at a police station and a rough sense of how long she will need to stay, will assist the intake process,” said Foster. To enquire, support or donate to the shelter call 076 813 0633 or email