Legendary South African choral group Ladysmith Black Mambazo has won its fifth Grammy award. The glitzy ceremony took place at Madison Square Garden in New York on Sunday night. The group scooped the prestigious award for Best World Music Album for their album Shaka Zulu Revisited. Over the years Ladysmith Black Mambazo has scooped 19 nominations at the awards and have walked away with five so far. The legendary group was in New York and took to Twitter to share a video of the announcement. When we won our Grammy this year… pic.twitter.com/5vRuB8UhBj — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 29, 2018  “We won the Grammy award for Best World Music Album! Shaka Zulu Revisited. Our 5th Grammy award. Such an honour. Thank you Grammy awards. Thank you fans and friends. Thank you South Africa!‚” tweeted the group. Speaking to TshisaLIVE in November when their nomination was announced‚ the group’s Siyabonga Tshabalala said they were overwhelmed by the recognition. “It is such an honour and every time we get such recognition we are filled with so much joy. It’s always a great feeling to know that our music keeps rising the South African flag in the world. It is so prestigious‚ we can hardly speak.” We send special THANK YOUs to our manager Mitch Goldstein for producing & releasing our cds through our own record company & guiding our career, to our Tour Manager Adam Hunt for traveling the world with us & keeping us safe. To our North American booking agency IMN, who keep — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 29, 2018  We send special THANK YOUs to our manager Mitch Goldstein for producing & releasing our cds through our own record company & guiding our career, to our Tour Manager Adam Hunt for traveling the world with us & keeping us safe. To our North American booking agency IMN, who keep — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 29, 2018  booking many shows for us and take us from our homes so people can come to our concerts. To Martin Walters who mixed & mastered our Grammy winning cd & made it sound so beautiful. We thank the many people who help us keep our career going strong. — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 29, 2018  Fans and high-profile personalities have filled Twitter with congratulatory messages. Congratulations  to Ladysmith Black Mambazo  for winning the 5th grammy award.:: #grammys #africa #african #africanpride #oneafrica #music pic.twitter.com/Xjo4mrcKoQ — 50degrees (@OskidoIBelieve) January 29, 2018  Ladysmith Black Mambazo keeps winning. They make it look so effortless. We are proud of them for yet another #GRAMMYs win. Halala! — Rami Chuene 1st Lady (@ramichuene) January 29, 2018  South African male choral group, Ladysmith Black Mambazo win their fifth Grammy for Best World Music Album (Shaka Zulu Revisited). They also have 19 Grammy nominations, an Academy Awards nomination and an Emmy Awards nomination. #Grammys pic.twitter.com/H7Z36cHpNn — Africa Facts Zone (@AfricaFactsZone) January 29, 2018  Who thinks Ladysmith black mambazo are game changers  pic.twitter.com/9wjTOrF7gV — Ronald Nomba (@NombaRonald) January 29, 2018  YALLL Ladysmith black Mambazo won a Grammy! WE LOVE LADYSMITH BLACK MAMBAZO pic.twitter.com/Wh7dv2K3v6 — Oprah Winefrey (@adub1004) January 29, 2018  Celebrated South African choral group Ladysmith Black Mambazo has scooped two Grammy nominations ahead of the 2018 awards‚ it was announced on Tuesday. The group was nominated in the Best World Music Album category for their album Shaka Zulu Revisited: 30th Anniversary Celebration. The album is a reworked version of… November 28, 2017 Choral group Ladysmith Black Mambazo and flautist Wouter Kellerman are South Africa’s two Grammy Award nominees for 2016‚ the Recording Academy announced this week. This is the 16th nomination for Ladysmith Black Mambazo‚ a male choral group established in 1960‚ and the second for Kellerman. Ladysmith Black Mambazo have won… December 10, 2015 It’s very rare for South African musicians to be honoured while they are still alive. But this is what will happen with Ladysmith Black Mambazo founder Joseph Shabalala. The KwaZulu-Natal government is pulling out all the stops for the ailing 76-year-old. Shabalala will on Friday and Saturday be honoured at… March 29, 2017