By ZINE GEORGE and ZOLILE MENZELWA Buffalo City Metro is the only Eastern Cape metro to receive a clean audit from auditor-general (AG) Kimi Makwethu. Nelson Mandela Bay Metro received a qualified audit opinion, spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki confirmed to the Daily Dispatch on Monday. The report, which reviewed the financial year which ended on June 30 2017, will be tabled at a special council meeting scheduled for today. This is a marked improvement for mayor Xola Pakati’s municipality, considering that during the previous financial year (2015-16) only the City of Cape Town received a clean bill of health. BCM has been receiving a qualified audit with findings since 2014-15. In his report, AG Makwethu said an unqualified audit “suggests that the annual financial statements present fairly in all material aspects, the consolidated and separate financial position of the BCM”. He said there were, however, areas of “emphasis”. These included: lA sum of R287.3-million was spent irregularly “due to supply chain management transgressions that occurred in the year under review”; lThe metro had accumulated debt of R1.2-billion (R1.1-billion of from 2015-16 financial year, which he said was caused by the low recovery of old consumer debt. lThe metro lost electricity valued at R219-million, of which R130-million was caused by faults and theft; and lThe metro also lost water totalling R101-million. R37-million was due to bulk water meters not being installed in rural and semi-rural areas.   Auditor-general Kimi Makwetu has raised concerns over the audit results of the province’s two metros – Buffalo City (BCM) and Nelson Mandela Bay (NMBM). Makwetu presented a brief summary of audit outcomes for the financial year 2013-14 in parliament on Wednesday. Details of the financial performances of all provinces for… June 5, 2015 Buffalo City Metro has been rated as the country’s second most financially stable metropolitan municipality after Cape Town. Ratings Afrika gives BCM a rating of 73 out of 100 in its latest annual Municipal Financial Stability Index (MSFI). It is just two points behind Cape Town, which received a rating… April 16, 2016 Four Eastern Cape municipalities, including Buffalo City and Nelson Mandela metros, are among the top 10 irregular spenders in the country, auditor-general Kimi Makwetu revealed yesterday. Scandal-prone OR Tambo district in Mthatha tops the national list after its irregular spend increased from R94-million in the previous financial year to a… June 22, 2017