Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has lost her claim to Nelson Mandela’s house in Qunu following a Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) ruling on Friday.  Madikizela-Mandela had appealed against a 2016 decision by the Eastern Cape High Court that she had no claim to the property and that Mandela was the rightful owner. In his will‚ Madiba left the property to the Nelson Mandela Family Trust for the benefit of the family and that of his wife‚ Graca Machel‚ and her family. Madikizela-Mandela wanted the courts to overturn a 1997 decision by the erstwhile Minister of Land Affairs to donate the land to Mandela. But the SCA – in agreeing with the Mthatha High Court – found that there was an “unreasonable delay” by Madikizela-Mandela to review that decision. “In respect of the application to have the delay condoned‚ the SCA held that a reasonable person in the position of [Madikizela-Mandela] would have asserted a right to ownership of the property before Mr Mandela’s death. It found that [Madikizela-Mandela’s] delay was prejudicial to Mr Mandela’s estate and heirs because his version of events was not available. It thus refused the application for condonation‚” a summary of the judgement read. Mandla Mandela‚ the grandson of former president Nelson Mandela and chief of the Mvezo Traditional Council‚ has welcomed Friday’s Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) ruling that effectively found against Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s claim to Madiba’s house in Qunu. Madikizela-Mandela had appealed against a 2016 decision by the Eastern Cape High Court… January 19, 2018 Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s bid to acquire her late ex-husband’s Qunu property was dealt a heavy blow yesterday as the Mthatha High Court dismissed her application for leave to appeal.  Madikizela-Mandela wanted to appeal the Mthatha High Court’s ruling which dismissed her main application to have Mandela’s property given to her. She… July 20, 2016 As her claim for the late statesman Nelson Mandela’s Qunu home was dismissed on a technicality‚ Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s lawyer on Friday said he intends appealing the Mthatha High Court’s ruling so the matter can “properly be ventilated”.  Eastern Cape Deputy Judge President Zamani Nhlangulela‚ who took about two minutes to… April 8, 2016