ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has promised to create a million jobs for South African youth over the next three years. Ramaphosa was speaking at a visit to Queen Noloyiso Sandile of Amarharhabe Royal Kingdom at Mngqeshe Great Place outside King William’s Town yesterday. Speaking amid rousing applause, Ramaphosa vowed to overhaul the Eastern Cape economy by reviving the agriculture sector. “Agriculture in the Eastern Cape has a big potential to be the number one economic sector in the entire country because the soil is fertile here and has more cattle than any province. I buy the best cattle in this province. “Eastern Cape is not holding its rightful place in the economy of this country. The agricultural sector has a potential to create lots of jobs and change the lives of our people. “Our youth cannot be gallivanting in shopping malls and on the streets all day. I will put them in the fields to work in the agricultural sector. There is so much to do there.” Ramaphosa also promised to unlock the potential of the ocean economy by attracting foreign investors. “We need foreign investments.” Ramaphosa also said radical economic transformation needed to be implemented soon. “We have to give land back to its rightful owners. Implementation is key. We have been talking a lot but not implementing things. “The new ANC is committed to serving the people. We are not here to be served,” said Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa also concluded his short speech by speaking against corruption in the movement. He vowed to get rid of all the “thieves” in the party. “There is no place for you if you are a thief so run. War has been declared against thieves in this party.” Ramaphosa and his top six executives have visited grave sites of five former ANC presidents, including founding president John Langalibalele Dube, Chief Albert Luthuli and Pixley ka Sebe. “We went to our ancestors because things have gone wrong in the ANC and we wanted their wisdom, as is done in the African culture when things are not working our way.” On Thursday the top six, which include ANC national chairman Gwede Mantashe and ANC deputy president David Mabuza will visit Nelson Mandela’s grave in Qunu. “We will go to Qunu to draw wisdom from Madiba to help us put the ANC back on track because people had forsaken it because of corrupt individuals who destroyed it.” — malibongwed@dispatch.co.za ANC deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa is humbled by the provincial general council which nominated him as the party's next president. He said this at an ANC fundraising gala dinner at the ICC in East London earlier this evening. The ANC will hold its elective congress in Gauteng from December 16… December 1, 2017 BY LULAMILE FENI and MAMELA GOWA Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s presidential ambitions received a boost over the weekend when he was publicly endorsed by Eastern Cape ANC provincial chairman Phumulo Masualle, as well as business and religious leaders in the OR Tambo region. Masualle, United Methodist Church of Southern Africa… July 10, 2017 Business and trade unions are cautiously optimistic after Cyril Ramaphosa was elected the new president of the ANC on Monday night. His victory was announced at the ANC’s elective conference in Gauteng after he nosed ahead of his opponent‚ Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Ramaphosa received 2‚440 votes and Dlamini-Zuma got 2‚261. Gwede… December 19, 2017