A second Mdantsane prison escapee was re-arrested in a forest today leaving two to go. Four dangerous criminals vanished in an unbelievable escape at the Mdantsane medium correctional facility on January 10. Thirteen warders are facing a disciplinary hearing. Mqanduli- born Phikolomzi Sonakele, 23, was found hiding out in the forest in Nxarhuni east of East London. Sonakele appeared briefly at the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court charged with escaping from lawful custody. The case was remanded to January 22 for a plea. Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said they acted on a tip off. He said the arrest “restored” hope to the victims of crime. On Tuesday escapee Sandile Vena was grabbed in the bush near his home at Peelton outside King William’s Town. “Two more are still at large. We urge the members of the public not to try and arrest them. Inform the nearest police station because they are very dangerous,” said Mzuku. Vulindlela station Commander, Lieutenant-Colonel Monde Mgolodela, thanked Nxarhuni community members for their assistance. “The partnership between the community in Nxarhuni and the police is growing from strength to strength. We need to stand together in the fight against crime,” he said. One of the four dangerous fugitives who escaped from the Mdantsane medium prison on Wednesday has been rearrested. Sandile Vena,22, from King Willaim's Town, was arrested at 3pm today by a special task force of the Eastern Cape Correctional Services Department. He was arrested in the bushes of his home… January 16, 2018 Correctional Services and Justice Minister Michael Masutha yesterday said the inadequate infrastructure and staff shortage which had resulted in the escape of four dangerous criminals at the Mdantsane Prison, would not be addressed anytime soon. He said this was because a “significant amount” of his department’s budget went towards fixing… January 13, 2018 Four "dangerous" criminals have escaped from the Mdantsane Prison outside East London in the Eastern Cape this morning.   Eastern Cape Correctional Services Commissioner Nkosinathi Breakfast said details were still sketchy about how the four broke out of prison. Breakfast has warned the public not to try and apprehend the… January 10, 2018