Truck driver training became more accessible yesterday with the launch of a mobile cyber-truck simulator.  The driver-simulator is designed to “provide hands-on, experiential training for drivers, offering experience without risks to people or equipment”. Caroline Fowler, a team leader at Kempston which owns the simulator, said: “You can record operator reactions and response times, and provide after-action reviews that point out performance improvement areas for each driver. “This training approach will improve critical driving skills, enhance decision making abilities, and increase the safety of your fleet.” The machine is one of many tools the Kempston Driver Academy uses to train aspiring truck drivers. The academy is an accredited institution able to offer Code 14 and dangerous goods certification valid for 12 months. Although Kempston have used this machine, with an out-the-box value of about R1.3-million, for the past 10 years as a fixed piece of equipment at the Border Training Centre in Mdantsane, it has only recently been modified to be mobile. George Murdoch, divisional director at Kempston, said: “I can assure you that this is the only mobile one of these in the country.” Rick Andrew, training manager at the Kempston Driver Academy, said the simulator was able to show even the most seasoned driver their faults and teach them to drive in the most economical way possible to stave off wear and tear to trucks. “To receive training for one day costs R5000, whether a business wants to train one or 10 people,” Andrew said. Businesses and fleet owners who would like to take advantage of the simulator can contact Andrew on 083-631-4735 or at ricka@kempston.co.za. Following the dictates of corporate culture is not something over which Kempston Group managers and employees lose much sleep. The group has shunned the corporatism of large national companies – best reflected in swanky, branded offices – in favour of an unashamedly home-grown business environment, rooted in the unassuming personality… June 13, 2016 Driving simulators worth R8-million stand idle in Dutywa after a driving course for students and locals came to a screeching halt. The Coega Development Corporation launched the project in partnership with the King Hintsa TVET College and Mbhashe municipality in 2014 to help locals and students pass their driving tests.… May 28, 2016 The Buffalo City Youth Council is steering 40 disadvantaged youths towards a better future through free driving lessons. The lessons, part of the metro’s skills development initiative, are sponsored through a partnership with the office of the deputy mayor and Coega Industrial Development Zone. Through the lessons, 40 aspiring Code… November 24, 2015