Speaking at an event commemorating struggle hero Joe Slovo‚ SACP Secretary General Blade Nzimande stated that “corporate state capture is treason actually“‚ according to the SACP’s Twitter feed. Nzimande further said that the tripartite alliance should not blame the judiciary when it goes against the ruling alliance.  This stands in contrast to President Jacob Zuma’s statement at the ANC’s national conference‚ where he called for the party to expel members who take the mother body to court. Zuma had a torrid 2017 in South Africa’s courts‚ culminating in the Constitutional Court ruling that parliament had not properly held him to account after a 2016 ruling that found Zuma had failed to uphold‚ defend and respect the Constitution. Nzimande also criticised Zuma for appealing the high court’s ruling‚ also in December‚ stating that he must institute a judicial commission of inquiry within 30 days. This judge heading this commission would be chosen by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng‚ rather than Zuma himself.  – TimesLIVE ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize believes that the party will survive its December elective conference unscathed‚ despite factional battles over who should take over as party president. “Insofar as there are concerns about ensuring that we correct the wrongs and weaknesses of the organisation and also to ensure that we rebuild… July 12, 2017 The South African Communist Party (SACP) says the axing of Blade Nzimande as Minister of Higher Education and Training is factional and places the tripartite alliance on the “brink of disintegration”. Nzimande was the highest-ranking SACP official in President Jacob Zuma’s cabinet. On Tuesday Zuma announced a cabinet reshuffle‚ removing… October 17, 2017 The SACP will do for Pravin Gordhan and Mcebisi Jonas what it did for Jacob Zuma when he faced difficulties in the past, party boss Blade Nzimande said yesterday. Speaking at the party’s Red October Campaign rally in Sebokeng in Gauteng, Nzimande did not announce that the party would go… November 7, 2016