In one of the biggest drug trafficking cartels bust, the Hawks, SAPS and the Crime Intelligent Unit (CIU) have arrested five Eastern Cape drug lords following a 13-month investigation. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, who visited one of the crime scenes this morning, declared war against drug traffickers. The suspects, who may not be named until they appear in court, were arrested at 3am this morning during what is described by the Hawks as a focused takedown. The suspects, described by Mbalula as “prominent” and “well-respected” in society, were arrested while they were sleeping at their homes in Berlin, Peddie, King William’s Town and Port Alfred. The five are alleged masterminds of a drug trafficking network that had been operating in the Eastern Cape for a long period.  One of the suspects in the morning bust includes a well-known Berlin farmer who was arrested at his Rocklands Farm in Berlin. In an interview at the grounds of Rocklands Farm, Mbalula praised his troops and said he wanted to go after all the kingpins throughout the country.  By: Mary-Anne Gontsana Soldiers are to be sent to gang-ridden areas in the Western Cape and other parts of the country by Christmas‚ says national police minister Fikile Mbalula. “It is going to happen. We are processing it in terms of the operational plan. Thereafter the president will give us… November 16, 2017 Western Cape police have denied that 10 suspects who were arrested and later released without being charged were made to lie on the ground for hours while waiting for Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to arrive. Police also denied allegations that the suspects‚ who were arrested outside the Huguenot tunnel and… October 16, 2017 Police minister Fikile Mbalula has urged officers to continue to “harass” criminals, and denied wrongfully arresting eight men on their way to a funeral and illegally searching their coffin and corpse. His call came after The Times reported how Mbalula posted images of eight men – arrested in connection with… October 14, 2017