Former Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu said the Life Esidimeni relocations could have been “handled better” as she apologised for the loss of life. Mahlangu is appearing at an arbitration hearing to explain her role in the move of more than 1‚700 mentally ill patients from Esidimeni facilities into ill-equipped NGOs in 2016. By September last year‚ 143 mentally ill patients had died‚ of causes including neglect‚ starvation and pneumonia. Mahlangu‚ who has been studying in London‚ started with a witness statement to read out. When she gave her first apology‚ a family member started sobbing hysterically. She said: “I am deeply sorry for your loss …. I know it will not bring them back‚ but I am deeply sorry.” Mahlangu said the project did not work out as anticipated‚ leading to a “tragic loss of life“. “Clearly this did not go according to plan. For that I sincerely apologise.” She said the intention of the move was to integrate mentally ill patients into the community‚ rather than leaving them hidden away in institutions‚ where they were stigmatised. “For far too long‚ the mentally ill have been treated as social outcasts.” She said the project was done with “good intentions“. “People didn’t plan that people were going to die.” At the end of her prepared written statement‚ before her cross-examination began‚ she apologised to families again. “I want to apologise for the loss of life in the project . . . For what is it worth‚ I sincerely apologise for the loss of loved ones.” TimesLIVE Former Gauteng MEC for health Qedani Mahlangu appeared before a packed Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing on Monday to explain her role in the move that led to the deaths of 143 mentally ill patients. Here are five noteworthy points from her first day of testimony. - She implicated her former… January 23, 2018 The head of the project to move patients from Life Esidimeni homes‚ former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu‚ spent a gruelling second day on the stand on Wednesday as she was questioned about her role in the policy implementation that resulted in the deaths of 143 mentally ill patients. Here… January 25, 2018 Former Gauteng Heath MEC Qedani Mahlangu will not take personal blame for the Life Esidimeni tragedy that led to 143 mentally ill patients' deaths. She says she only takes the "political blame". "I cannot carry personal blame. I was not working for myself." Mahlangu explained this while under cross-examination by… January 25, 2018