A black former pupil of Hoërskool Overvaal has defended the Vereeniging school against accusations of racism. In a Facebook post that has gone viral‚ Kamo Tjelele wrote that while he was a learner at the school‚ he was never sidelined because of his race. “I’m a proud product of Hoërskool Overvaal and as a black person‚ I graduated from that place having made friends and not enemies‚” Tjelele wrote. “This is bilateral to teachers and learners. Never did I feel being treated differently because of the colour of my skin. So I will attest to say that there is no racism in Hoërskool Overvaal‚” he added. According to his Facebook profile‚ Tjelele is now studying medicine in Cuba. He wrote: “Let’s allow the minority groups and some of us who belong to the majority group to exercise our constitutional right to education in the language we want.” His post came after tensions flared outside the school last week during protests over the school’s language policy. A number of people were arrested after a petrol bomb was thrown at a police vehicle‚ allegedly by supporters of the Congress of South African Students (Cosas). The row erupted after the school refused an instruction by the education department to accept 55 English-speaking pupils. The school’s decision was backed by the High Court in Pretoria. The school said it had no capacity to admit the learners. During the court battle‚ the department submitted that it had put all necessary measures in place to accommodate the 55‚ including furniture‚ study material and an English teacher. -TimesLIVE A parent was punched in a scuffle involving protesting members of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) outside Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging early on Wednesday. He had tried to stop a black parent from driving past Hoërskool Overvaal as she was hooting and had her fist in the air. https://twitter.com/TimesLIVE/status/953512080648306689 Police had… January 17, 2018 Tensions simmered on Wednesday outside Hoërskool Overvaal in Gauteng‚ which has been at the centre of a language row. A parent was knocked out by an EFF protester on Wednesday morning after he made an offensive gesture towards a group of protesting EFF supporters as he dropped off his daughter.… January 17, 2018 By the time the protesters outside Hoërskool Overvaal lobbed a petrol bomb at the police, it was clear that something as simple as a school’s language policy could still inflame deadly passions 41 years after the Soweto Uprising against Afrikaans in black schools. I could not help thinking: what is… January 25, 2018