Four Fleet Street policemen are being investigated by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) for police brutality after they allegedly assaulted a 36-year-old Mdantsane woman. Ipid spokesman Moses Dlamini confirmed that the Ipid had opened a case of assault. “The investigation is well under way and we have not arrested anyone at this stage.” The victim, Sindiswa Ndamase, alleged in a statement to the Ipid that she was dragged and aggressively separated from her crying 11-month-old baby, and kicked and punched by the policemen in front of onlookers. The alleged incident took place at a busy East London taxi rank near Shoprite on Saturday December 16. Ndamase said she had been trying to grab the keys to her boyfriend’s taxi in an effort to force him to repay the R300 she had loaned him. Ndamase said her boyfriend, who is the father of her baby, had borrowed the money which she was saving to buy baby formula, and had promised to pay it back. Ndamase spent the weekend and two weekdays in police cells while her toddler in NU 2 went without breast milk while being looked after by her disabled brother. Ndamase alleged that the police refused until the Sunday afternoon to give her access to her baby so that she could breastfeed her.. “It was painful. The police charged me for theft after my boyfriend called them. The police punched me and started kicking me,” Ndamase claimed. She said her boyfriend tried to stop the police but she was taken to the station anyway. “My boyfriend went through my purse while I was on the ground and got the [taxi] keys. He instructed the police to let go of me as he had found the keys, but it was in vain.” Ndamase said “The child didn’t have food for two days and started crying while this man was dodging me, so I went to the taxi rank and found him on the driver’s seat relaxing next to a woman. Instead of giving me the money back, he told me stories, that is when I knew he was not interested in paying the money, so I needed to act.” East London police spokeswoman Warrant Officer LH Mqala said on Monday: “SAPS can confirm that a case of theft is under investigation against the complainant and subsequently, she has opened an assault common case against the police, which is under investigation. “At the time of the arrest, there was no way of knowing that she had an 11-month-old baby whom she was breastfeeding. When such request was brought to the attention of the police, she was allowed to breast feed. Arrested persons are allowed to breastfeed their babies in custody.” — malibongwed@dispatch.co.za Former SABC chief operations officer and apparent strongman Hlaudi Motsoeneng says he will only talk about the inquiry into the SABC board’s fitness to hold office “when the time is right“‚ following a leak of a parliamentary committee working document on it findings. The ad hoc committee is expected to… January 19, 2017 Hudson Park High School fast bowling sensation, Akhona Mnyaka, became the youngest selection for the money-spinning T20 Global Destination League when he became the surprise pick of the Bloemfontein City Blazers during the draft pick on Sunday morning. The main player draft saw 16 players picked per squad over 16… August 29, 2017 Parliament’s rules review sub-committee is scheduled to meet on Wednesday and Thursday to deliberate on a draft procedure for implementing section 89(1) of the Constitution which deals with the removal of a president. This follows the Constitutional Court’s judgment handed down on December 29 that the National Assembly had failed… January 7, 2018