At least two people have died and four injured since the taxi violence erupted in the Mthatha area this week.  The taxi violence related shootings started on Thursday afternoon. Most of them happening on the R61. Passengers have also been hit by stray bullet, which are believed were targeted at drivers. Police spokesman captain Khaya Tonjeni told the DispatchLive that a task team has since been formed to investigate the shooting incidents.  “The Taxi Violence Task Team is leaving no stone unturned in search of suspects  behind several shooting incidents that occured in the Mthatha Cluster in the past three days that led to death of two and several injured,” he said.  In one of the incidents, a taxi driver was shot while offloading passenger in Ngangelizwe township on Thursday evening. He died on the scene.  “It is alleged that the driver who succumbed to the injuries and died while offloading passengers when an unknown gunman opened fire at him. He succumbed to his injuries instantly while the passenger sustained injuries on his upper body and was rushed to hospital,” said Tonjeni.  He said 15 cartridges of a rifle were picked from the scene. “No arrest yet and police are investigating a murder and attempted murder cases,” he said. Tonjeni said the police were also investigating all the other incidents.  Eastern Cape provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga has issued a stern warning to those behind these atrocious actions that police and the Taxi violence Task Team is working night and day to trace the suspects. “We have done a lot of work in combatting taxi violence in the OR Tambo area and we won’t let this great work and distance we have covered to restore law and order be reversed by few trigger happy individuals who have no respect for human life”, said Ntshinga.  Six people were killed on Eastern Cape roads at the weekend, five of them in one horror smash. The cars they were travelling in collided on the road between Dutywa and Willowvale. In another incident, six taxi passengers were injured when a hijacked truck ploughed into the vehicle they were… October 3, 2016 A well known East London taxi boss was shot dead at the Mdantsane Highway taxi rank in NU2 last night. A second taxi owner was rushed to an undisclosed hospital with bullet wounds after two unknown gunmen opened fire on the two shortly after 5pm. The men had been sitting… June 22, 2017 Two ATMs were bombed in Ntlaza near Libode early yesterday morning, and in a separate incident a taxi driver was shot dead near Mthatha in a suspected hit. The ATMS – belonging to Absa and Nedbank – are attached to Ulundi Service Station along the R61, about 10km from… June 9, 2016