The ANC’s national working committee has mandated the party’s top six officials to tell President Jacob Zuma to resign before the end of this week. The 26-member NWC, which is dominated by ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa allies, has recommended that Zuma should voluntarily resign immediately or face an impeachment in parliament. A subcommittee of parliament’s rules is busy working on parliamentary rules for the impeachment. Sowetan understands that Zuma’s future was one of the issues discussed at the NWC meeting at Luthuli House, ANC headquarters, in Johannesburg, on Monday. An insider said the NWC asserted the position of the national executive committee that the top six officials should handle the matter. There has never been such a strong call within the ANC for Zuma to step down. Even Zuma’s key allies, Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans’ Association (MKMVA) appear to have backed off from their position that Zuma would see the end of his term. MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe refused to comment yesterday. Given that the ANC top six officials who include Ramaphosa and secretary-general Ace Magashule – one of Zuma’s strongest allies – are divided over whether Zuma should leave the office, the latest development could divide them further. ANC Veterans League president Snuki Zikalala said Zuma should be given the option to resign. “There are court cases about our president and there is an impeachment bill coming. The president must be given the opportunity to sit and digest these things because the situation is currently untenable,” Zikalala said. However, Zikalala said Zuma’s departure should be handled humanely. “Everything should be done as humanely as possible. We don’t want a forced resignation. We support the decision that the top six officials should handle the transition.” Zikalala said Zuma’s departure would depend on the discussion between himself and the top six officials. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa was not immediately available for comment. EFF spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi confirmed that the party would table a motion of no confidence in Zuma. “We have written to that effect to the National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete. She has acknowledged our letter.”  The ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) elected its National Working Committee (NWC) late on Friday, which included a mix of leaders belonging to factions both supporting and opposing newly elected party president Cyril Ramaphosa. ANC MP and defeated presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma received the highest number of votes along with Housing… January 20, 2018 ANC top brass including secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize are expected to meet branch leaders from around the Eastern Cape today. Mantashe, Mkhize and deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte will lead national working committee (NWC) teams to clarify the NWC decision to accept President Jacob Zuma’s apology. This followed… April 12, 2016 Top ANC leaders in the Eastern Cape were mandated to protect President Jacob Zuma at the extended national working committee (NWC) meeting yesterday. The Daily Dispatch learnt yesterday that ANC provincial chairman Phumulo Masualle and provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane were delegated to support Zuma at the meeting, scheduled to discuss… April 5, 2016