DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced on Tuesday that Day Zero for the drought-stricken City of Cape Town has been pushed back to April 16. The original date was April 12 when dam levels are expected to be at 13.5%. Dam levels currently stand at 26.3%. Maimane‚ at a media conference‚ thanked Capetonians for saving water over the past week which meant that Day Zero could be pushed back by four days. “We have managed to push back Day Zero by cutting consumption to an average of 580 million litres a day for the past week to 540 million litres a day for the past few days‚” he said. “Pushing back Day Zero by 4 days may not seem like a lot. But actually it is a significant victory. It shows that residents are coming together and cutting water consumption.” Cape Town MMC JP Smith warned over the weekend that residents stockpiling water meant Day Zero would occur sooner. “It is not necessary to stockpile water‚ water will be readily available. At this stage‚ every bit of stockpiling brings us closer to a Day Zero scenario. Residents who are stockpiling are inadvertently driving a Day Zero outcome. If we are frugal you will be able to collect water from your taps throughout this year and next year‚” Smith said.      Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille will reveal the revised estimate for “day zero” — the day the taps will run dry — on Tuesday. Dam levels in the Western Cape as a whole fell to 29.7% this week‚ and De Lille is expected to reveal that daily water consumption… January 9, 2018 If the approach of Cape Town’s Day Zero continues on the trajectory it has maintained for the past two months‚ it will arrive around March 3. That’s six weeks away‚ and about six weeks earlier than the City of Cape Town’s latest projection of April 12. Why the discrepancy? Because… January 24, 2018 Cape Town’s new “day zero” is April 22‚ just 103 days away‚ says mayor Patricia de Lille. This is when nearly all taps in the city will run dry‚ De Lille said on Tuesday at a briefing about dam levels and water use. She said the amount of extra water… January 9, 2018