An East London pensioner had a near death experience last week when a gun-wielding thug pointed a firearm at her face during a dramatic hijacking ordeal in Vincent. Jothi Naidoo, 64, a veteran walker, stared death in the eyes when she was hijacked at gunpoint on Wednesday morning at the robots in front of Hudson Park High School while on her way to join her walking group. Her life-threatening ordeal unfolded just before 5am that morning when she stopped her blue Toyota Corolla at a red traffic light at Devereux Avenue, moments before an unknown hijacker stormed at her driver’s side window, pointed a firearm to her face and demanded she handed over her car keys. “As I was about to leave, this man appeared from nowhere and walked up to my car with a gun in his hand,” said a traumatised Naidoo. The gunman shouted at her: “Give me your car and I won’t shoot you.” A frightened Naidoo obliged, got out of her car, and started running towards Checkers shopping centre at the corner of Devereaux Avenue and the Old Transkei Road where her walking group normally meets every morning. Cambridge Police Station spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi confirmed that a case has been opened in the wake of Naidoo’s hijacking ordeal. Mbi also said no arrests have been made at this stage. — tylerr@dispatch.co.za Police are hunting for a suspect who escaped from a prison in King William’s Town. Siyabonga Mlambo, 22, was one of five men from KwaZulu-Natal arrested in July last year in connection with a spate of hijackings in KWT. They were arrested in Umzinto on the KZN South Coast while… January 7, 2016 Mother wants life for murderers ATRANSKEI mother has finally found closure after those responsible for her daughter’s death were sentenced on Friday. Her daughter Nwabisa Senge was hijacked, robbed and murdered after offering a woman a lift. The court heard how Senge, a junior accountant at Mnquma Local Municipality in… June 4, 2013 Two gunmen have been arrested after a mother of three endured a horror ordeal after being abducted from outside her Southernwood home on Tuesday. The traumatised woman, whose name has been withheld, says she thanks God for having escaped unharmed. Her alleged abductors had earlier tied her up, before leaving… October 29, 2015