Police remain on high alert after EFF supporters stormed into several H&M stores around the province on Saturday.   Shops in Sandton‚ Menlyn Park and on the East Rand were forced to close after party supporters trashed the stores in an apparent protest against an online ad that has been labelled racist. Earlier this week‚ the Swedish clothing company withdrew sales of a green hoodie with the inscription “coolest monkey in the jungle” after complaints that the ad featuring a black child had triggered accusations of racism. The company apologised on its Twitter account and in a statement posted on their website admitted they got it wrong and were deeply sorry. Police spokesman Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said police had to intervene and disperse a crowd using rubber bullets when protesters entered an H&M shop in East Rand Mall and stole several items. In Menlyn‚ protesters threw clothing around but nothing had been reported stolen. “The shops in all other areas are reported to have been closed and police are monitoring the situation. No arrests have been effected so far‚” said Dlamini. EFF national spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlovu could not be reached on his cell phone‚ but tweeted that the party would visit every racist institution to ensure there were consequences for any denigration of the black race. “H&M is not the last one … The time of apologies for racism is over; there must be consequences to anti-black racism‚ period‚” said Ndlovu on Twitter. This is not the first time the retail giant has come under fire in South Africa. It had to deal with a public relations disaster at the opening of its first SA store‚ at the Cape Town Waterfront‚ in 2015‚ after members of the public queried why there were no pictures of black models in its window. The company responded that its marketing plan was one which intended to convey a positive image – implying black models were not in line with this image‚ which caused a storm of protest. – TimesLIVE  The Economic Freedom Fighters must be held accountable for all the damages incurred as a result of vandalism at a number of H&M stores‚ the Democratic Alliance said on Sunday. The DA said EFF leader Julius Malema must pay the damages incurred by the stores. Shops in Sandton‚ Menlyn Park… January 14, 2018 No one has been arrested for trashing H&M stores across Gauteng at the weekend‚ said provincial police spokesman Colonel Lungelo Dlamini. But he said police were investigating Saturday's incidents and would be looking at CCTV footage from shopping malls as part of their investigation. AfriForum deputy CEO Ernst Roets said… January 15, 2018 CRIMINAL charges have been laid against the Economic Freedom Fighters for their behaviour in the Gauteng legislature, police said today. “Charges of public violence and malicious damage to property were opened at the Johannesburg Central police station,” Lt-Col Lungelo Dlamini said. He said no arrests had been made. The legislature said… July 23, 2014