A 21-year-old woman is expected to appear in the Lehurutshe Magistrate’s Court in North West today in connection with the alleged attempted murder of her newborn baby. The woman was charged on Saturday for allegedly attempting to kill her three-day-old baby boy‚ North West police said. “According to information available at this stage‚ it appears that the woman‚ whom the family did not know that she was pregnant‚ delivered a baby boy without assistance of any person‚ and then threw the newborn into a pit toilet on Thursday at Dinokana village‚ Lehurutshe. “The baby was discovered by the woman’s cousin after she saw blood on the toilet floor. While still shocked‚ she heard the baby crying from the pit toilet and called her sister and the neighbours‚” police said. The police and Emergency Medical and Rescue Services (EMRS) were summoned to the scene and the newborn baby was rescued. The mother and the baby were taken to hospital for medical examination. “After being under police guard since Thursday‚ the mother was discharged from the hospital on Saturday‚” police added. A 21-year-old has allegedly confessed to killing her child‚ disposing of his body and then reporting him missing. "It is alleged (on) 25 September 2017‚ at Ntombiyehlulunina‚ Maphumulo‚ a 21-year-old woman strangled her eleven-months-old baby boy and disposed of his body in a pit toilet‚” said police in KwaZulu-Natal. “She… September 27, 2017 Saturday’s murder of a day-old baby on the Cape Flats is one of 19 cases of neonaticide estimated for every 100‚000 live births that occur in South Africa. The infant‚ whose 32-year-old mother was arrested and charged with murder‚ was reported to have only been alive for a few hours.… September 20, 2017 Residents of a rural Ngqeleni village are still in shock after discovering a newborn baby dumped inside a toilet pit on Tuesday afternoon. The incident reportedly took place in Mdumazulu village in Mampondomiseni in Ngqeleni. Although attempts to get a comment from the police had drawn blanks at the time… May 24, 2017