In what has become an annual tradition since the Constitutional Court ruled Net 1 UEPS Technology subsidiary Cash Paymaster Services’ (CPS’s) welfare payment contract illegal in 2014‚ Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini intends to apply for yet another extension this year.  Civil action group Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) issued a statement on Friday morning saying it “urges the Constitutional Court to prevent any further extensions to the illegal contract with CPS and to hold Dlamini personally accountable for creating the parallel process that enabled her and her supporters in her department to engineer the grants payment crisis“. Outa referred to a report in which Dlamini and South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) acting CEO Pearl Bhengu said they would formally apply to the Constitutional Court for an extension of Net 1’s contract beyond the court’s March 31 deadline. “However‚ the Constitutional Court confirmed this week that no such application has been received yet‚” said Dominique Msibi‚ Outa’s portfolio manager for social services and special projects. “We can’t wait to see how the court responds when Sassa and the minister finally bring their intended application to extend CPS again. They are clearly stating that they are going to fail to deliver on the court’s directive‚” Msibi said. Outa accused Dlamini of “shrewdly‚ continuously frustrating the exit of CPS at the 11th hour each year“. “The only logical explanation for this is that Sassa and the minister have deliberately engineered this situation. It is absolutely critical that grant beneficiaries receive their lifeline without fail‚ but unfortunately it is the very enabler of these grants who is endangering them‚” Msibi said. -BusinessLIVE The Constitutional Court on Thursday ordered that an inquiry be established to set out the roles and responsibilities of social development minister Bathabile Dlamini. In a unanimous judgment‚ the court found that it could not make an “adverse” order against the minister on the basis of allegations that have not… June 15, 2017 The wait begins for an inquiry into the roles and responsibilities of Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini after parties delegated to appoint an individual to head the investigation file their recommendations to the Constitutional Court on Monday. The Black Sash Trust approached the court in March after the SA Social… July 17, 2017 The South Africa Social Security Agency has withdrawn its Constitutional Court application asking for an extension of a social grants distribution contract it invalidated in 2014. “The reason at the moment is the fact that there were... inputs not included‚” Sassa spokesman Kgomotso Diseko said. “It’s going to be relodged.”… March 1, 2017