Bhisho High School pupil Emihle Klaas, who has vitiligo, hopes to follow in the footsteps of international model Winnie Harlow, as she embraces her skin condition. The 17-year-old’s confidence to model and bring awareness about the condition was sparked by an East London dermatologist, who showed her images of various models who have the same condition, among them Canadian fashion model, spokesperson and activist Winnie Harlow. According to MedicineNet, vitiligo is a disease in which the pigment cells of the skin, melanocytes, are destroyed in certain areas. Symptoms and signs of vitiligo include loss of skin colour in the form of depigmentation, or white patches of skin in any location on the body. Emihle’s mother, Gcobisa Klaas, said her daughter’s condition had started when she was in preschool. “At the time I didn’t know what it was and I was ashamed. I made sure that she wore a polo neck to cover it because her skin started going white on her neck,” she said. The concerned mother said she took her daughter to a well-known dermatologist in East London a few years back and was given medication to take. “I found that she wasn’t taking her medication consistently and she didn’t really care about it. I was the one who was worried on her behalf,” she said, adding that the older Emihle became the less consistent she was about taking her pills. In 2016, Klaas said they took her to a different dermatologist who showed them pictures of various models with vitiligo. “We got to learn more about the condition and she came out of that consultation feeling inspired. “She has never been the same since that day; she is a confident young woman now,” she said, adding that Emihle had always enjoyed modelling but as a mother she felt she had to protect her from being hurt. “When she started entering pageants again I asked her if she was sure and she said yes. She knows how to deal with people who make fun of her,” Klaas said. Emihle said she knew from a young age that she needed to accept herself as she was. “After seeing the likes of Winnie Harlow, I thought, ‘why can’t I love myself the way she loves herself’. I use my social media to promote self-love and acceptance,” she said. Embracing her skin saw her being crowned Miss Bhisho High last year. She has also worked with a local clothing brand, Ndimbi, owned by Sinoxolo Manengela. “I am passionate about modeling and I hope to take it far. I also want to get a tertiary education,” she said. Her mother said she wanted her to obtain a degree first before she took on modelling full time. “I am proud of her, her confidence amazes me, sometimes I look at her and think ‘wow, God blessed me with this person’. Only God know why she was born like this and the plans he has for her,” she said. Emihle hopes 2018 will bring her more opportunities to showcase her talent while raising awareness about vitiligo. —poliswap@dispatch.co.za Local celebrities including Oskido‚ Nomzamo Mbatha and Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa have added their voice to the chorus of well wishes for political stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. This after the former wife of Nelson Mandela was recently hospitalised.  Madikizela-Mandela was rushed to hospital earlier this month after falling ill and requiring essential… April 18, 2016 ANC stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has no time to entertain pesky rumours surrounding her physical appearance. Madikizela-Mandela who recently celebrated her 80th birthday last week has been the talk of the town on social media. While the majority of South Africans complimented her beauty‚ others sent the rumour mill into a… September 19, 2016 BASIC Education Minister Angie Motshekga was yesterday instructed by an Eastern Cape court to provide norms and standards a model for schools by the end of this year. The move has been seen as a victory by education lobby groups Equal Education (EE) and the Legal Resource Centre (LRC). However,… July 12, 2013