The wreckage of the light aircraft that went down in the Wild Coast region earlier this week has been found, officials confirmed on Friday. Chief of the Aeronautical Rescue Centre Santjie White said while the wreckage was found, no survivors could be accounted for. By late yesterday, the search had continued for the missing light aircraft piloted by Gonubie pilot John Waterson. “This morning the NSRI started the day searching the coastline between East London and Wavecrest with no results. “The briefing in the morning concentrated on ground rather than air as only a small area of concern was checked again. “It became apparent that the ground search would deliver better results due to the most probable area of detection being dense vegetation,” White said. According to police, the two-seater Savannah plane, with Waterson and one of his employees, known only as Gerald, on board, had been on a test flight. “The Aeronautical Rescue Co-ordination Centre (ARCC) would like to thank the following roleplayers that assisted in the search: The South African Police Services, Aeromed, NRSI, Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre, ATNS and all the local pilots who volunteered their aircraft and time as well as other local volunteers assisting in the ground searched. “The ARCC wishes to thank everybody who selflessly participated in the success of the operation and conveys its sincerest condolences to the loved ones, families and friends of the lost aviators,” White said. By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI and LISEKHO MADIKANE The charred bodies of the missing Gonubie pilot John Patrick Waterson, 59, and his technical assistant Gerald Murahwi were recovered yesterday from a ravine. https://youtu.be/jtgh5DfBXLs They were found close to the eastern end of the Morgan Bay landing strip in the morning. Murahwi was… January 27, 2018 A search and rescue mission is underway for a Gonubie man whose light aircraft went down in the Wild Coast area in the early hours of this morning. The aircraft was reportedly las seen flying over the Bulugha area, heading towards a private runway in Gonubie. Health department spokesman Sizwe… January 25, 2018 Indonesian divers yesterday retrieved one black box and located the other from the AirAsia plane that went down in the Java Sea with 162 people on board, a potential breakthrough in efforts to discover what caused the crash. The flight data recorder was brought to the surface early in the morning,… January 13, 2015