Western Cape Premier Helen Zille has apologised for a tweet in which she told “gloating Jo’burgers” that “karma can be a real bitch”. The tweet was an apparent response to someone who had rejoiced in Cape Town’s water crisis. The city is months away from Day Zero‚ when its taps are expected to run dry. “I certainly DO owe all the caring Joh’burgers an apology. I was responding to a tweet sent to me of a person wasting water and telling me‚ gloatingly that in Jozi they don’t have a problem‚” Zille tweeted on Sunday night. “Somehow my reply got appended to the wrong tweet. HUMBLE APOLOGIES.” The apology followed a heated reaction to the initial tweet. Some social media users posted images of dozens of bottles of water that Johannesburg residents had collected to send to Cape Town. “Has some 17-year-old troll taken over your account? Why are you being so petty?” Natalie E. Kendrick tweeted. Zille set the record straight after a flurry of backlash. The premier faced the familiar criticism that she should reconsider her social media presence‚ which nearly got her axed from the Democratic Alliance last year after she was accused of praising colonialism. Zille then‚ too‚ apologised. “You are quite right. I was responding to a GIF that someone sent me about spilling water‚ but I replied to the wrong tweet. Humble apologies‚” she said.  Western Cape premier Helen Zille is being investigated by her party because of her controversial social media utterances‚ DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Thursday. Maimane told talk radio 702 that Zille would face a disciplinary process. Chairman of the DA’s federal council‚ James Selfe‚ said the party had referred… March 16, 2017 Western Cape Premier Helen Zille apologised on Thursday for suggesting that colonialism had positive spin-offs. http://www.dispatchlive.co.za/news/2017/03/16/colonialism-wasnt-bad-says-helen-zille/ Zille caused a stir on Thursday morning when she tweeted that people who claimed the legacy of colonialism was only negative should think “of our independent judiciary‚ transport infrastructure‚ piped water etc”. “Would we… March 16, 2017 As the ANC continues to disintegrate, it is becoming more important to assess the quality of available alternatives. As a result, opposition parties like the DA and the EFF come into sharp focus. Whilst this may remove focus from the ANC for a while, possibly giving it reprieve from constantly negative… March 29, 2017