Animal cruelty charges laid by the National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) against East London Zoo curator Alison Roux have been withdrawn, triggering a response from Buffalo City Municipality spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya, who had earlier labelled reports leading up to the charges as “dramatic” and “a publicity stunt”. He said reports had been published in an attempt to “tarnish the image of the city” and accused the NSPCA of threatening zoo employees with legal action instead of “working with us as people who harbour the same interest”. However, the NSPCA hit back, saying it was “appalled at the attitude of BCM”. This follows the death of an underweight male Chacma baboon called William, who was put down in May after the NSPCA’s former national Wildlife Protection Unit inspector, Cassandra MacDonald, found him suffering with open wounds which had become infected with maggots. The baboon was put down after a warning that he be examined by a vet had allegedly not been complied with. “This was not the only animal that was found suffering,” said NSPCA inspector, Arno de Klerk. “It is completely inconceivable that the municipality would downplay such a severe case of animal cruelty. It is inexcusable.” Also last year, MacDonald, who no longer works for the NSPCA, paid a series of visits to the zoo and found that a female gibbon called Peanut had died of TB in her enclosure on July 2 after the NSPCA request that she be euthanised had allegedly not been complied with. Roux and another senior staff member appeared in the East London Magistrate’s Court last year. “The Buffalo City Metro welcomes the court’s decision to withdraw and drop charges laid by the NSPCA against its employees relating to the East London Zoo.” Ngwenya said after visits by NSPCA inspectors, BCM had acknowledged “challenges” faced by the zoo and had carried out a “clear programme of action” to rectify them. He said BCM would continue to “allow” the NSPCA entry into the zoo, which he said had visited the facility last week. Referring to “dramatic statements and reports” as unfounded, he said they had come at a price for zoo manager Roux, who “was hauled before courts and paraded as the face of cruelty against animals”. The NSPCA’s De Klerk said the case had been withdrawn pending further investigation by the police, who he said failed to produce a complete docket. Ngwenya took a swipe at members of the public who had voiced concerns about the conditions at the ageing zoo on social media. “We are aware of the fact that there are many groups who are sensationalising any tragic situations as part of their smearing campaign to close down the zoo.” — barbarah@dispatch.co.za The National Council of SPCAs will lay charges against the East London Zoo for animal cruelty. The council revealed this in a media statement sent yesterday after the NSPCA’s Wildlife Protection Unity paid an unannounced proactive visit to the zoo. During the visit it found a male Chacma baboon, William,… May 30, 2017 Alison Roux, the manager of the East London Zoo has appeared briefly in court on a charge of animal cruelty. The case was postponed to October 19 for further investigation. Roux appeared before magistrate Rochelle Sam in the East London Magistrate’s Court last week. State prosecutor Asanda Nolusu told the… September 20, 2017 More charges are to be laid against the East London Zoo by the national council of SPCAs (NSPCA) following the death of a female gibbon monkey called Peanut who died of TB and may have been infected by humans. https://youtu.be/ZYAB6c3GHX4 Peanut died in her enclosure on July 2, four months… July 12, 2017