Bra Hugh Masekela’s last wish to have a private funeral will be honoured‚ his family revealed at press conference on Thursday afternoon. Addressing the media for the first time since Bra Hugh’s death was confirmed on Tuesday morning‚ his son Sal Masekela said they were encouraged by the overwhelming messages of support from across the world. “I can say that for my entire family when you get the amount of love and just pure personal stories from people all over the world. The passion with which they loved this man is incredible. We can’t stop marveling at the passion with which the world continues to celebrate and mourn my father. We say thank you again.” He added that his father would have wanted people to jive and not cry during this time. Sal revealed that it was his father’s wish to have a private funeral for family and close friends‚ and that they would honour that. The family said that Bra Hugh instructed them to celebrate his life through his foundation and exhibitions that will be open to the public. “The funeral will be for close family and friends‚ this is what he wanted‚ anyone who wants to pay their respects can go to the various memorial events.” The family have not yet decided on when the funeral will take place but there will be at least three public memorial services. The main memorial service will be held on January 28 at UJ Soweto Campus. The family also plans to organise various international memorial services in Bra Hugh’s honour. In what can be dubbed as a rare interview‚ legendary musician Hugh Masekela sat down with TshisaLIVE just months before his death‚ in July 2017. Journalist Chrizelda Kekana got the opportunity to chat to Bra Hugh about the reason he’s so selective with media interviews and his desire to do… January 23, 2018 It has been announced that legendary musician Hugh Masekela has cancelled all upcoming performances after undergoing eye surgery last Friday. Organisers of the Standard Bank Joy of Jazz Festival released a statement announcing that Bra Hugh would not perform at the festival on September 30. The statement revealed that doctors… September 26, 2017 Legendary musician Hugh Masekela has revealed that his 'obsession' with heritage has motivated his strong views against weaves and the increasing use of English as opposed to native languages. During an interview with TshisaLIVE‚ Bra Hugh said he was pushed by the desire to have Africans‚ especially the youth‚ see… August 1, 2017