University of Fort Hare students that were camping outside the East London campus this evening have invaded Union Arcade, the privately-owned residence they occupied last year.
More than 200 students, mostly from the education faculty waited for many hours after registering, to be allocated accommodation. East London campus premier Kwanele Ntantala said when the sun set and students realised they had nowhere to go, they decided to go to Union Arcade.
“We waited with students hoping the management would provide alternative accommodation, but it was not to be. Out of panic and frustration, students resorted to going to Union Arcade. We are against allocating students to Union Arcade because it does not meet requirements to accommodate students,” he said.
He said some of the issues they had were that the building was not partitioned properly and the only kitchen in the building was downstairs.
“Students from all the other floors have to go up and down to cook,” he said.
“Students are tired of being moved up and down. Today they are temporarily accommodated in one residence, the following day they are taken to another one, it was a very frustrating exercise.
The other challenge we faced was that, although we were not satisfied with the building, some students preferred it because it is in town, closer to the campus and it has wi-fi. Because of those advantages, students disregarded other issues with the building,” he said.
Ntantala said the SRC would meet with the university management on Monday to discuss a way forward. More than 200 University of Fort Hare students who have not been allocated accommodation are camped outside the university’s East London campus this evening. Most of them are education students who were staying at the privately owned Union Arcade in the CBD last year. When DispatchLive arrived at the campus… January 19, 2018 By BONGANI FUZILE, ARETHA LINDEN and ASANDA NINIA Hundreds of University of Fort Hare students have been hurriedly moved out of a building in central East London into other buildings – including one owned by Jacob Zuma’s son-in-law. The university took the decision to move the students after ceilings in… July 24, 2017 The University of Fort Hare students who moved from their Union Arcade residence into the NBS building in East London for safety reasons have claimed the new residence is even more dangerous. Hundreds of students were evacuated from the Union Arcade building in July after a ceiling collapsed on sleeping… September 12, 2017