A flash mob of teachers dressed as trolls, motivational banners, bright balloons, cupcakes and loud music don’t sound like the first day back at school, but that is exactly what is in store for girls returning to classes at Clarendon Primary after the summer holiday today. Behind the upbeat carnival atmosphere and dancing teachers in blue troll hairdos is a solidly researched rationale that seeks to banish first day of school anxiety and help the pupils immediately feel a sense of belonging in their new classrooms. “Research shows that for adolescent girls, the highest stress experienced in a 24-hour period was when they arrived at school,” said Clarendon Primary’s dynamic principal Dr Melanie Drake. “Cortisol levels are highest and adrenal glands are in overdrive when they arrive.” Drake said the anxiety was caused by the need to find their friends and assimilate. “Neuroscience research in education supports the notion that without children feeling safe and that they belong, learning and brain activity will not function at optimum levels.” As a proponent of producing fearless, empowered young women at her school, Drake has launched the value of grit, based on research by Angela Duckworth, which includes the characteristics of perseverance, stamina, endurance, effort and passion and which has been shown to contribute to success. “This is powerful in education because it opens doors to every learner, despite their background. “Girls are particularly careful, risk-averse and cautious and so need to be taught grit and to be given opportunities to live it in their daily lives. Our staff know that to become leaders of the future, girls must be able to take calculated risks, challenge norms and stand up for what they believe in.” And, far from simply talking the talk, the school’s teachers have, in preparation for today, been hard at work practising their dance moves for a surprise flashmob during assembly and have also been videoing themselves showing true grit during their holidays to set a good example. The school’s education support specialist, Elizabeth Maree, said the girls would enjoy the “grit games” today based on science, technology, engineering, arts and applied mathematics. “It has been such fun brainstorming and planning the launch of this event together and we are even more excited to see our girls take risks, make mistakes, learn from them and grow into their best selves.” When Dr Melanie Drake takes the helm as Clarendon Primary’s new principal in a few days’ time, she will bring with her an admirable assortment of progressive and global views about gender and education and she cannot wait to get started. In Drake’s considered outlook, girls are shaped to know… July 30, 2017 Pupils, principals and parents from various schools across East London were all upbeat yesterday as the 2016 academic year got off to a smooth start. There were more smiles than tears as thousands of pupils arrived at school – some for the first time, while for others this will be… January 14, 2016 A teenage girl from Duncan Village beat 99 other pupils from various schools around the province when she took first place in a numeracy and literacy quiz recently. Sibulele Natuse, 13, from Nontuthuzelo Primary School in Duncan Village took part in the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica) quiz,… September 28, 2017