The listeria outbreak in Buffalo City Metro took a bizarre turn yesterday when the provincial health department’s test findings were rejected as untrue.  The critics of respected Eastern Cape health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo’s announcement included BCM, and some businesses affected in Berlin. They claimed no inspectors or researchers ever came and collected samples or spoke to them about the contagious food-borne bacteria. However, Kupelo was sticking to his guns. “Our findings were verified and legit. We are following legitimate government work, and not just getting information from the air. We stand by our statement, based on laboratory findings.” He said the department would not “entertain the speculation”. “I’m surprised why people are up in arms over this because we’ve not released any names. We’re not going to be drawn on complaints while no names have even been mentioned. “Those complaining should just relax and continue conducting their businesses.” Farmers and butchery owners in Berlin are livid over the department of health’s claims that listeria was found in their produce. Speaking to the Dispatch, frustrated farmers and butchery owners yesterday blasted the claims, saying that no inspections were ever conducted on their properties. Barry Kaiser, owner of Jireh Supermarket and Butchery in Berlin, said the claims had done a lot of harm to their businesses. “The health inspector [environmental health practitioner] who tests our products, knows nothing about this. No one ever came to my butchery to test anything, and none of the other farmers who operate around here know anything about this.” Allan Ahlschlager, who owns Witchkrantz farm and Berlin Meats, said no officials ever came to his farm or his butchery business to conduct searches and collect samples. Ahlschlager said: “No environmental health practitioner ever came to us. “It’s the first time we’re hearing about all this. We’re all worried, and now our customers are staying away from us. This is going to hurt our pockets. “We want the source of this disease to be found, but someone’s definitely jumped the gun here.” Sikhulule Nxazonke, BCM’s environmental health practitioner, confirmed that he was responsible for health inspecting in Berlin, and was also “surprised” by the provincial department of health findings. He said he knew nothing about tests conducted in Berlin. Nxazonke said: “I knew myself to be the only one responsible for research in Berlin, and I don’t know of any samples that were collected in Berlin.” Nxazonke said the claims had placed his integrity in jeopardy. “People are saying that they’re never buying meat in Berlin, and my clients [business owners] are attacking me saying I’ve lied about their businesses,” he said: Buffalo City Metro’s spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya refuted claims of listeria found in Berlin. The city spokesman said: “As the city, and in particular, people who are managing the area of Berlin within BCM, we have not received any positive results with regards to listeria.” — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za Four businesses in the East London CBD were shut yesterday after they failed to produce business licences when SAPS and Buffalo City Metro officials raided their premises. BCM spokesman Thandy Matebese said the raid was part of “Operation Fiela”, a national campaign aimed at curbing drug use, human trafficking, prostitution,… August 13, 2015 Listeria bacteria, which cause the food-borne listeriosis disease has been identified in Buffalo City Metro (BCM).   -  “For the full story get a copy of the Dispatch or subscribe to our e-Edition for the complete newspaper with jobs, classifieds, crosswords, TV schedules and back editions”. January 30, 2018 MEAT on the floor, rats in the ceiling and filthy walls and surfaces – they are Buffalo City Metro’s very own kitchen nightmares. This week Saturday Dispatch went into restaurants and supermarkets armed with the alarming findings of city health inspectors. BCM officials had discovered a litany of transgressions among… November 16, 2013