Former public protector Thuli Madonsela has officially joined the University of Stellenbosch.  In a tweet on Tuesday afternoon‚ the university welcomed her to the team. “Stellenbosch University welcomes Advocate Thuli Madonsela‚ who started today at our Faculty of Law‚” the tweet read.  The retired pubic protector takes on the position of chair in the social justice faculty. When her appointment was announced in October 2016‚ she expressed excitement about the new journey. “I hope to work with my colleagues at the law faculty to play our part in accelerating the pace of achieving the constitutional promise of an inclusive society based on social justice‚ shared prosperity‚ friendship and peace. I am also looking forward to working with young people at the university and beyond on these matters‚” she said at the time. Madonsela‚ whose Twitter handle now reads as Prof Thuli Madonsela‚ took to Twitter to again express joy at the prospects of the new chapter on Tuesday.  – TimesLIVE Thuli Madonsela’s post-public protector role has been revealed: Stellenbosch University’s law faculty has announced that she will take up a chair in social justice in the faculty. But that will happen only in 2018; Madonsela is taking a sabbatical until then. The university said Madonsela would be able to “continue… October 20, 2016 Thuli Madonsela must accept that her tenure as a public protector has come to an end‚ the ANC Women’s League said on Monday. Secretary-general Meokgo Matuba said the league had “read with disappointment attacks” on current Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane which were published in The Sunday Independent. The newspaper reported… February 6, 2017 Thuli Madonsela was South Africa’s third Public Protector, following after Selby Baqwa and Lawrence Mushwana. Many people are likely to remember Madonsela far more than the others for the obvious reason that her tenure was the marked by the high profile investigations involving President Jacob Zuma. Madonsela indeed proved to be… December 7, 2016