Hundreds of Eastern Cape provincial traffic officers who work on national roads, have no competency certificates to carry firearms and others have no bulletproof vests.   This is according to some officers, who spoke to the Dispatch on condition that they remain anonymous. They fear that their lives are at risk sometimes, as they have to confront motorists who become aggressive to both them and other motorists. Some complain about being short staffed and many travel to work in worn-out uniforms with no name tags and worn, old shoes. A patrol officer in Amathole district told the Dispatch he couldn’t even recall when he last went for firearm training. However replying to Daily Dispatch queries, the department said the officers had competency certificates that were “valid for life”. One of the officers said they were at risk. “It’s not a lie – we are at risk here as we don’t get the training for firearm competency. “If you shoot someone you cannot even win that court case because we are not fit to carry these firearms,” the officer said. The Dispatch has seen a grievance letter believed to have been sent to the provincial transport department by officers at the Struandale traffic station in Port Elizabeth. In the letter, the officers said they were given firearms but were never given bulletproof vests. “Also, there are no renewal of firearm certificates. “We are expected to report on duty using public transport because some of us don’t have vehicles. “When doing so, we have to travel in uniform and with the firearms assigned to us. “No quarterly training is provided for firearms that we keep at our premises,” read the letter, signed by 64 officers. The officers said their ammunition is never changed and “there’s no counselling done for handling of firearms that we keep on our premises”. “What about our safety? The very same person you wrote a ticket for, or arrest, could come back and haunt you,” said another officer. Transport departmental spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie said all traffic law enforcement officers had the valid certificates. “These [competency] certificates are valid for life. On an annual basis they are expected to refresh their shooting skills and some officers from the Struandale office were among the first to go on training last year.” Rantjie said the department was aware of challenges in terms of uniform and other working tools. “We are busy processing the provision of tools of trade for traffic officers. Last month, we started with the distribution of uniforms in OR Tambo district and we are now waiting for the delivery of the rest of the uniforms by the end of next month,” she said. Traffic officers also complained about overtime payment, saying the department was taking many months to pay them for work already done. They also spoke of vehicles that were not available for them to conduct policing work. In Struandale, officers complain that they can’t use the patrol vehicles to go home or to work. “We travel in a group of four or five in a patrol vehicle to and from work and it is only Struandale that is not allowed to take vehicles [home]. “At Kinkelbos and the regional office, officers are allowed to take vehicles home,” their grievance letter stated further. Rantjie said they were finalising the filling of vacant posts, with 30 new officers to be employed in various stations in the province. “This is meant to increase our capacity to enforce traffic laws. Traffic officers form part of that, including the appointment of a Struandale station commander,” she said. The department said it was paying overtime but with applicable policies. “We are currently processing overtime for the officers who worked during the festive season. “With respect to the vehicles, the policy dictates that traffic officers who start at 6am and those who knock off at 10pm use government vehicles to travel home. “The vehicles we have are enough to accommodate traffic officers,” said Rantjie. — bonganif@dispatch.co.za lSee page 5 for more  A DECISION to stop overtime payments by the Eastern Cape department of transport will see provincial roads go unstaffed by traffic officers on public holidays and weekday evenings. The move leaves motorists vulnerable on some of the country’s most dangerous roads – including the N2 between East London and Mthatha… June 15, 2013 THE jury is still out on whether the conversion of some routes in Mthatha to one-way streets will improve traffic flow in the city centre. King Sabata Dalindyebo (KSD) Municipality mayor Nonkoliso Ngqongwa announced last week that Madeira and Sprigg streets, two of the busiest routes in the city’s central… October 2, 2013 By BONGANI FUZILE and MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI A decision by the Eastern Cape transport department to stop paying overtime to their hundreds of traffic officers has forced the officers to boycott work, including attending to accidents or doing VIP escorts. This unanimous move was taken yesterday afternoon by the officers who… September 26, 2016