The ANC had initially requested that only the party’s top six will visit Nelson Mandela’s Qunu home and his gravesite, Mandela’s grandson, Mandla Mandela said on Thursday afternoon. Some top ANC leaders, including national executive committee (NEC) members Lindiwe Zulu and Noxolo Kiviet, were barred from entering the home by security who said they were told to only allow the top six inside. According to Mandla, who is also the chief of Mvezo and ANC MP, other NEC members were later allowed inside “and were given breakfast like everybody”. “The family has agreed to observe the protocol and traditions and therefore will go to Nkosi Dalibhunga’s [Nelson Mandela] resting place and inform him and the ancestors of the visit of the entire ANC leadership that will take place on February 11. They will be hosted by the family in Qunu,” said Mandla. He said that would afford all of the family members scattered around the country enough time to be present to receive and host the guests. “In accordance with tradition, we shall also slaughter an ox in honour of the visit of ANC leadership.” In a statement, Mandla said: “The Mandela family was deeply honoured to welcome the top six ANC leadership to president Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela’s homestead at Qunu. Nkosi Dalibhunga always regarded the ANC as his political home and his homestead at Qunu was always open to the movement and its leadership. In keeping with this tradition we were instructed by Mamu Nosizwe [Graca Machel] to receive and host the delegation led by newly elected ANC president comrade Cyril Ramaphosa.” Some top ANC leaders visiting Nelson Mandela's homestead in Qunu were barred from entering the premises. Only party President Cyril Ramaphosa, his top six leaders and ANC Eastern Cape chairman Oscar Mabuyane were allowed into the palatial home located along the N2 near Mthatha. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67gv5Knnz18&feature=youtu.be Among those barred from joining… January 11, 2018 NELSON Mandela’s extensive family has continued the bitter squabbles that began before his death with a dispute over who is now their proper leader, days before the reading of his will is expected. Both his oldest grandson, Mandla Mandela, an ANC MP, who was nominated by the former statesman to… January 7, 2014 By ZINGISA MVUMVU, LULAMILE FENI and NATHI OLIFANT “The ANC is back with a bang and we will be dealing with those stealing public money.” These were the strong words from ANC newly-elected president Cyril Ramaphosa as the governing party celebrated 106 years of existence at a cake-cutting ceremony in… January 9, 2018