America has stressed that it “deeply respects” South Africa and the rest of the continent‚ despite controversial comments attributed to President Donald Trump about African countries‚ officials said. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) said on Monday that it had met with counterparts at the United States Embassy and the United States Charge d’Affaires to “express South Africa’s concerns with regard to the reports about statements that were allegedly made by President Donald Trump with regard to Africa and certain other countries”. Dirco spokesman Clayson Monyela said in a statement that both countries noted in Monday’s meeting – which coincidentally fell on Martin Luther King Day in the US – that Africa and the African diaspora had contributed significantly to the United States. “The United States Embassy and the United States Charge d’Affaires responded to the concerns of South Africa by stating that ‘there has been no change in the United States’ dedication to our partners across the Continent’ and that ‘the United States deeply respects the people of Africa and the people of South Africa‚ and values its partnerships with them‚’” said Monyela. He said US Embassy officials also responded to concerns about Trump’s comments by saying: “The United States deeply respects the people of Africa and the people of South Africa‚ and values its partnerships with them.” The statement echoes remarks made on the Embassy’s Twitter account on Friday. “The US deeply respects the people of #Africa & values partnerships w/ them. There has been no change in our dedication to partners & friends across the Continent. We remain committed to working together to realize the promise of a more prosperous 21st century Africa‚” the Embassy tweeted. Trump drew widespread criticism last week after he reportedly referred to African countries as “shit holes”. US President Donald Trump urged President Jacob Zuma to collaborate on shared security threats and the fight against terrorism during their telephone conversation. The White House has finally released details‚ albeit brief‚ about their discussion on Monday. South Africans had a field day speculating what they would say to each… February 16, 2017 African National Congress (ANC) secretary general Gwede Mantashe said US President Donald Trump’s changes in policies should only be a cause for concern if they threaten multilateral trade deals. Mantashe’s comment comes after Trump slapped a ban on travellers from seven Muslim countries entering the United States. “I don’t think… January 30, 2017 President Jacob Zuma has been urged to publicly denounce the actions of US President Donald Trump. Intentional charity Oxfam has urged world leaders to pledge to #standasone with refugees denied access to the US resettlement programme. And this week‚ their South African affiliate‚ Oxfam SA‚ wrote to Zuma urging him… February 3, 2017