ANCYL national executive committee (NEC) member Bavelile Hlongwa this evening told ANCWL president Bathabile Dlamini and her top brass that they should step aside and allow young women to lead.  Hlongwa was speaking at the ANCWL Young Women’s Dialogue at the East London City Hall where she told Dlamini and her executive that some of them should be resting at home. Hlongwa also lashed out at the ANCWL for failing to deliver Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in the party’s national elective conference in Nasrec. Instead, she said, women were divided because of men hence the loss. ” We are tired…some of you should be resting at home because you are old and your knees cannot carry you no more but you don’t want to give us space and we are going to confront you as well,” charged Hlongwa to Dlamini and some of her NEC members at the top table. “The ANCWL is very behind in the struggle and if you don’t give us (young women) the baton, fighting partriacry in the ANC will not succeed “You have failed to give young women a chance to learn from you” By ZINE GEORGE and ZINGISA MVUMVU A defiance campaign against an ANC Women’s League executive decision to field Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma will be launched in East London ICC today. The women’s league made it clear that they were supporting Dlamini-Zuma “and nobody else”, but in the Eastern Cape ANCWL leaders from… July 15, 2017 ANC Women's League (ANCWL) President Bathabile Dlamini apologised to June Steenkamp in person for a faux pas when a member said (Reeva) Steenkamp must rot in jail, instead of (Oscar) Pistorius. The comment was made after the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) judgement on Thursday, where Oscar Pistorius was found… December 7, 2015 A group of mine workers stopped Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma yesterday from entering Koppie in Wonderkop, Marikana, where 34 striking mineworkers were gunned down by police in 2012. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) members prevented Dlamini-Zuma from laying a wreath at the spot in memory of the deceased. She… August 23, 2017