You may have completed your matric and are keen to move on to getting a degree, but before you pound the pavement looking for a suitable institution, ask yourself: how relevant will your degree be in today’s workplace?  Media reports show that companies like accounting firm EY (formerly known as Ernst & Young) no longer consider degree results when screening potential employees. Global publishing group Penguin Random House took it a step further by announcing that they no longer require their job candidates to have a university degree. Explaining the possible reasons Dr Felicity Coughlan, director of The Independent Institute of Education, said some traditional degrees were past their sell-by date. According to Coughlan anything, be it a degree, communication technology or even the fat and sugar content of food, becomes redundant once it fails to evolve in response to changed demand. “There has been a lot of talk lately about the usefulness, or not, of a university degree, with some commentators even venturing the opinion that degrees are, in fact, dead. But while there is merit in some of the arguments, they only hold true for those qualifications that have failed to respond to changing demands in the world and the workplace,” she said. “Only a few decades ago, many universities held themselves apart from ‘business’ and ‘industry’, and some even explicitly stated it was not the job of the university to prepare students for the world of work.” Weighing in is Stellenbosch University’s Professor Jonathan Jansen, who said degrees were still relevant, so long as they were partnered with experience. Jansen said apart from ensuring one greater employment opportunities, degrees also tought one ways of reasoning and provided knowledge, among other things. “Degrees should not just be limited to the freedom they can offer graduates economically, they should be looked at from all different angles and all they provide. “I was trained as a teacher but I didn’t walk out of a university and become a good teacher. That only happened after I had taught for two years. And I think that’s true for any industry. The knowledge provided at university needs experiential training,” Jansen said. Jan Badenhorst, chief executive officer of the Skills Academy, touched on the costs of a degree, saying they led to many students starting their working life with huge amounts of debt, with very little guarantee of a good income. “Only the very rich can afford to spend hundreds of thousands of rands on a broad education that does not teach you some specific skill that you can use to get a good income. Today you can, right after matric, do a short online course for free,” he said, giving programming or building websites as examples. “So that person is getting an income right after matric. And not getting into debt. “Compare that to the person who has no income for three years while studying a degree. And then not finding a job with that degree. The person who did the short course and started working now has a huge advantage over the person who did a ‘general’ degree.” In a story which appeared in the Daily Dispatch last year, communication and marketing manager for Accounting Technician South Africa, Phumzile Phatedi, said prospective accountants did not need to have a degree before they entered the labour market. Phatedi said there were now opportunities for individuals to enter the labour market with other accounting qualifications, such as the Accounting Technician qualification. Coughlan advised prospective students to carefully scrutinise what they are signing up for.