Pupils at top private schools in the Eastern Cape have once again excelled in their Independent Examination Board (IEB) National Senior Certificate (NSC) 2017 exams, with some receiving up to eight distinctions. The results, released at midnight, showed that a 98.76% pass rate was obtained at all IEB-accredited schools in the Southern Africa region, a slight increase from 98.67% that was achieved in 2016. Some of the Eastern Cape schools include Merrifield College in East London, Diocesan School for Girls (DSG) and St Andrew’s College in Grahamstown. A total of 11464 full-time and 666 part-time candidates from 212 examination centres across Southern Africa wrote the IEB examinations. Of those who wrote, 565 were from 14 schools in the Eastern Cape. All achieved a pass that was good enough to enter tertiary study with 88.5% of the pupils achieving an entry to study for a degree. Pupils at Merrifield College once again received a 100% pass rate, as well as a 100% university exemption rate. Merrifield scooped 62 distinctions from 32 pupils, with 46% of its pupils earning averages of 70% and a quarter 80%. The top achiever at the school is Jenna Jones with six distinctions and an average of 87%. Cole Miles and Rory Thomas were in the top 1% nationally for mathematical literacy. The school’s executive head Dr Guy Hartley thanked the staff for their dedication and professionalism in guiding the matrics to excellent results year after year. “I am particularly grateful to our staff for stretching our pupils beyond the curriculum and for being prepared to offer additional classes, extension and enrichment work. The rewards of this commitment are evident,” said Hartley. Three pupils from Diocesan School for Girls (DSG) were placed on the the IEB commendable list for being among the top 5% of all matric IEB candidates in five subjects. The girls are Alice Godlonton from Grahamstown, Caitlin Bailey from Knysna and Annabelle Schaeffer from Johannesburg. Godlonton attained eight subject distinctions, six of which were over 90% and Claire Squires from Kimberley also achieved eight subject distinctions. Caitlin Bailey, Julie Jevon and Tamia Mfazi of East London, and Annabelle Schaeffer and Abigail Wood of Johannesburg all attained a full house of seven subject distinctions. DSG headmistress Shelley Frayne said they were proud of their academic record which she attributed largely to a strong work ethic among the pupil body, good parental support and well-trained, committed and dedicated academic staff. Taha Anjum from St Andrew’s College achieved a full house of seven distinctions. The 103 St Andrew’s College boys who wrote the exam, achieved a total of 224 subject distinctions – the highest number of distinctions achieved by a matric class since the inception of the NSC in 2008. St Andrew’s headmaster Alan Thompson said this year’s matric results were the best results in the history of the school. “The achievements of the class of 2017 symbolise the magic that is created when hard work, talent and passion combine. There are no shortcuts to excellence,” said Thompson. — arethal@dispatch.co.za