War in Africa has taken a consistent toll on elephants‚ hippos‚ giraffes and other large mammals from 1946 to 2010‚ a new study shows. Ecologist Joshua Daskin found that 70% of protected areas had been harmed by civil conflict — a quarter of them for more than nine years — during the 20th century. Daskin‚ from Princeton University‚ examined the abundance and decline of 36 species in 126 protected areas in 19 countries. Wildlife were practically exterminated in parks such as Gorongosa in Mozambique‚ which was hit first by the anti-colonial war then by a 15-year civil conflict. By 1999 the park had fallen silent and nothing moved‚ not a bird‚ snake or animal‚ this writer observed on a trip there. The elephant population had collapsed by more than 75% by the early 2000s. Daskin’s research was triggered by an exploratory visit in 2012 to Gorongosa‚ by which time wildlife had rebounded to 80% of pre-war numbers. Conflict can have positive and negative impacts on biodiversity but this study is the first time that scientists measured the net effect. Animal populations rarely crashed to the point where they could not recover‚ said Daskin. “We’re presenting evidence that although mammal populations decline in war zones‚ they don’t often go extinct. “With the right policies and resources‚ it should often be possible to reverse the declines and restore function ecosystems.” Habitat protection and anti-poaching measures are not enough to protect megafauna without investing in the “people side of conservation”‚ including job creation‚ promoting health‚ education‚ law and order and stopping corruption‚ he said. Chief scientist at The Nature Conservancy‚ Hugh Possingham‚ said the research showed that the fate of animals rested on stable social structures. “Bottom line — to stop threats such as bushmeat hunting‚ governance really has to be strong‚” he said. Giraffes are facing a “silent extinction”, with only 90000 still roaming the African plains – far fewer than the endangered African elephant, a David Attenborough documentary warns. Just 15 years ago there were thought to be around 150000 giraffes in the wild. Since then numbers have fallen by 40% because… June 21, 2016 At the end of a year in which elephants and giraffes emerged as Africa’s latest endangered species‚ add a new entry: cheetahs. The Zoological Society of London wants the world’s fastest land animal to be classified as endangered‚ estimating that just 7‚100 remain — more than half of them in… December 27, 2016 THINK Africa, and animals are lions, elephants, zebra, giraffe and rhino among others. In Australia it’s kangaroos, wallabies, dingoes and koala bears. Think New Zealand and you struggle. Animals, what animals? Did I hear you say sheep? You’d be right, but they don’t count ... well they do. Last time… April 9, 2013