A comedian’s attempt to distract South Africans from the outrage over an H&M advertisement which was slated as having a racist undertone has backfired. In a post that was shared thousands of times on Facebook‚ comedian Rory Petzer was accused of unnecessarily dragging an ad for the nappies brand Pampers into the racial debacle. “Dear Fighters‚ I think you should forget about that monkey shirt and leave H&M. Shift your attention towards these people. Why does the white baby have a mother‚ while the black baby appears to have no parents and eats his own feet?” read Petzer’s post. Followers did not see the joke in his post and accused him of seeking attention and distracting them from real racial issues. Reuben Kheswa responded by saying‚ “I don’t get the humour. Perhaps you can enlighten us since you got the funny end of the tail. It would be better to give clarity than play nice guy to this dry joke!… do you really think the EFF has the anger to take this one as well? My anger as a black man right now should be directed at you for thinking we can be your bait!” “My point of view on the 2 photos if you can see underneath it says ‘Active’ baby dry on the black baby hence she can able to stretch her leg and that is being active. On the other photo is says ‘New’ baby dry and no baby is born without the mother giving birth to them. The H&M and this ad are in comparative. No race card here.” Thulani Ngubeni commented. Brendan Plane accused the comedian of trying to tell black what to do. “Why are White People constantly telling Black People what should or shouldn’t make them angry?” Kabelo Lance Maile said “There’s nothing wrong about this advert  all i see is two adorable kids” The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) made headlines this weekend when they vandalised dozens of stores of international clothing retailer H&M across the country. This comes after the company used a black boy to model a green hoodie on which was printed “coolest monkey in the jungle”. The advertisement landed the brand in hot water when global celebrities and the social media community lambasted the ad because of its alleged racial undertone. (**For the picture:  An East London family was horrified to find their dead puppy hanging from a fence post with its throat slit last Friday. Errol Petzer filed a charge of animal cruelty at the Kidd’s Beach police station the next morning. Petzer, who lives with his wife Miekie and their daughter Tanya… July 1, 2015 A case of animal cruelty has been opened at the Kidds Beach police station after a pet dog called Misty was found suspended from its owners' front fence post with its throat slit and its stomach slashed open. The horrified Petzer family who live on a small holding in Christmas… June 30, 2015 Self-proclaimed Xhosa language activist Tsepiso Nzayo is bringing comedy back to Grahamstown when he returns to the city for one night only. The Tsepiso and Friends Comedy Night show is the comedian’s way of introducing his friends and also to bring some excitement ahead of the National Arts Festival (NAF). “I… May 12, 2016