A speedy court interdict against illegal land invaders demarcating plots along the R72 near Cove Rock prevented hundreds from erecting shacks on the land they had earlier claimed. Last week, Buffalo Pass and a section of the R72 near Cove Rock was abuzz as crowds descended on the area to claim whatever land, belonging to Buffalo City Metro and a few private owners, they could get their hands on. When the Daily Dispatch visited the sites yesterday, there was not a single vehicle or person in sight. The excitement died down soon after Buffalo City Metro erected a huge sign threatening to arrest any trespassers. The notice read: “The sheriff of the court with the assistance of the BCM police and or South African Police Services, is empowered by this order of the court to take all necessary and reasonable steps to dismantle or demolish any structure erected on this property in contravention of the court order.” Farmer James Herman, who lives a stone’s throw away from the vacant property said he had been overwhelmed by the many people and vehicles on his property. “It was a busy week for us last week when we watched so many people on our driveway, taking down trees to use as pins among other things. It was worse on Saturday, I had to threaten that I would remove their vehicles with a forklift because I couldn’t leave my driveway. It’s a relief that all of the land grabbing here was short-lived.” Buffalo City Metro spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya said after obtaining the court interdict and demolition order on Friday afternoon, the municipality was able to open a case of trespassing against anyone occupying land illegally on the R72. “Following reports of a land invasion, the municipality has followed the laws of the country strictly in order to act decisively. We are now in a position to arrest anyone trespassing on the land and prosecute them successfully. The municipality also erected public notices around the area and as per law, the court order was read out to those who were found in the area and they were given 10 minutes to disperse.” Ngwenya said failure to do so would have led to arrests. However none was made. “According to the court order, anyone commencing or continuing to erect/occupy the farm number 924 area in East London is interdicted and restrained. The order also empowers the police to take all necessary and reasonable steps to dismantle or demolish any structure erected illegally on the property.” — mbalit@dispatch.co.za