Former South African Football Association vice-president Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana will run for the Safa presidency‚ TimesLIVE has learnt. Nonkonyana intends to contest the election on March 24‚ which current president Danny Jordaan has said he will stand for reelection in. Nonkonyana was dismissed from his post as Safa vice-president in October 2014. The outspoken administrator had been suspended by the association for comments made on then-Bafana Bafana coach Gordon Igesund in October 2013. Nonkonyana had suggested the coach should be fired if Bafana did not reach the final of the African Nations Championship (Chan) in Cape Town in January 2014. Nonkonyana‚ 61‚ is a member of the Nonkonyana royal family and head of the of the AmaBhala Clan in the Eastern Cape. He and Jordaan were once close allies in the so-called “Football Transformation Forum”‚ which backed the victory of Kirsten Nematandani in the Safa presidential election of 2009. Former Bafana Bafana captain and Leeds United legend Lucas Radebe has also expressed his interest in running for the Safa presidency. Suspended South African Football Association (Safa) vice- president Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana will be stripped of his position and dismissed tomorrow after the football body unanimously decided to kick him out. Safa will hold its annual general congress at the Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg tomorrow and the Daily Dispatch can… October 10, 2014 Questions have been raised about Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana’s eligibility in the race for the South African Football Association (Safa) presidency but the man himself says he is not fazed by the scrutiny. The former Safa vice-president told TimesLIVE on Monday that he is pressing ahead with his campaign and is… January 8, 2018 NEW South African Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan has seen his tenure start with a crisis of confidence from sponsors and now a petty squabble that again sees administrators rather than players and teams dominate the back pages. The withdrawal of Absa and Puma reflect the deep malaise that… October 21, 2013