Platinum selling gospel star Dr Tumi will make his debut performance in East London this weekend. The multi-award winning singer will perform at Abbotsford Christian Centre tomorrow from 7pm. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch, the medical doctor-turned musician said he was glad he was finally coming to East London. Dr Tumi was first scheduled to perform in East London late last year but organisers had to cancel the show at the last minute. “There were a lot of logistics that prevented me from coming to East London last year. I believe there was a conference in the city that clashed with our date and we struggled to get flights for the team. I wanted to make sure we give the show it’s own time to stand out,” he said. Dr Tumi took the gospel industry by storm with his album titled Love and Grace in 2016. Last year saw him releasing his second album titled The Gathering of Worshippers: Speak a Word. Since his debut, Dr Tumi has won numerous awards, his album went platinum and has also filled the Ticketpro Dome. The soft-spoken singer said he would be doing another massive show this year. “We are busy working on something big. We will be making the announcement next week. I can’t say much right now but all I can say is that everyone will be super excited,” he chuckled. Dr Tumi said he was humbled by the feedback he had been getting since his debut album. “We are still promoting the second album and we want to make sure every household in South Africa has it. I am amazed at how people have received it so well and we are still planning to promote it,” he said. Dr Tumi said he strongly believed that people were hungry for authentic worship. “There is a huge need for that. People always want to experience freshness, newness and that is what I want to give them,” he said. “Be authentic. Be original and don’t copy anyone.” He also added that people should get ready to experience what they have been doing as a team. “It’s going to be amazing. We won’t be rushing, no cutting any songs. We will have a good time and allow the holy spirit to lead us,” he said. Tickets for the show cost R180 and are available from Computicket. South African urban contemporary gospel music is on the rise‚ thanks to among others‚ the new kid on the block‚ professional doctor turned musician Tumisang Makweya‚ also known as Dr Tumi. According to gospel music talent scout Tshepo Nzimande and Joyous Celebration founder Lindelani Mkhize‚ having been in the industry… December 27, 2017 All roads led to The Ticketpro Dome on Sunday afternoon for gospel artist Dr Tumi's sold out concert. And the production‚ stage and vocals did not disappoint. https://twitter.com/TshisaLIVE/status/899299913200226304 A couple of months ago the ambitious gospel singer shared his plans to pull a Cassper Nyovest and fill up The Dome.… August 21, 2017 Dr Tumi has challenged the traditional stereotypes of doctors being wealthy‚ revealing that his own idea to start a medical practice left him broke and swimming in debt. Speaking to Metro FM's Rams Mabote‚ the popular gospel star and registered doctor recounted how he had been "proper broke". "I have… November 8, 2017