By MANDILAKHE KWABABANA and SINO MAJANGAZA Eleven of the 17 women who were rescued by Police Minister Fikile Mbalula from suspected brothels in East London have gone back to the streets. A further four are receiving counselling while two were reunited with their families. Mbalula led a high-level police delegation that included national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole and Eastern Cape police commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga on raids to suspected brothels and drug dens in Quigney in East London two weeks ago. After being rescued, the women and underage girls were taken to places of safety. But provincial social development spokesman Mzukisi Solani told the Daily Dispatch that some were no longer in their care. “We can’t do anything because they are adults and it is difficult to do anything against their will. This is unless their families intervene. “We can’t force those who choose not to participate [in being kept at places of safety and receive counselling]; we can only encourage them [to receive counselling],” he said. Solani said those who had chosen to remain at their places of safety were getting psychological help. “The remaining four girls are attending counselling at one of our programmes. They will be taught life skills. Some will be taught how to deal with substance abuse if they are struggling with it. “After the advisable phase and the report returns to us, we will be advised on what to do from then on,” he said. The women and girls were rescued from three dilapidated houses in Moore Street in Quigney. After Mbalula led the police top brass on the raids, he charged: “All these houses must be closed. We cannot come here and then nothing happens.” However, it is business as usual at the three suspected brothels in Quigney. Mbalula, who was in East London yesterday, said he was not aware the houses had not been closed down. “Those [alleged] brothels that are running there, including those people who are running them, we need to clamp them down and put our foot down and ensure that we bring those people to book. “I was not aware [that they are still operating]. For me they should not be. They should actually be closed,” he said. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula pounced on a suspected brothel and three drug dens in Quigney, East London yesterday. Acting as the clock counted down to the ANC’s huge 106th birthday celebrations this weekend, he led a police force raid which saw 18 women, some of them visibly underage, being told… January 10, 2018 Police yesterday made a breakthrough in their fight against organised crime when they pounced on five Eastern Cape suspected drug lords believed to be part of a nationwide drug trafficking network. The arrest of the five was the culmination of an investigation lasting more than a year, by a joint… January 26, 2018 Police Minister Fikile Mbalula failed to show up at a police safety monitoring event in East London yesterday because he was busy with preparations for the ANC’s 106th birthday celebrations. Mbalula was expected to be at the East London railway station yesterday where he was due to conduct rail safety… January 9, 2018