The Buffalo City Metro council this week appointed a head of department for the metro’s human settlements department after a long recruitment process which was re-started last year.  Luyanda Mbula was appointed as the big boss of the troubled department despite the DA and EFF raising concerns. The appointment was made at a closed session on Tuesday when the council had its first special council meeting. A “top secret” report seen by the Daily Dispatch and written by city manager Andile Sihlahla revealed that Mbula was the “highest of the candidates”. Sihlahla revealed that Mbula and other candidates had criminal records. State security states that the candidates mentioned had “committed minor offences in terms of schedule six offences and also 10 years has lapsed since they committed the above mentioned offences and therefore are considered to have been rehabilitated”. The Dispatch reliably learnt that some ANC, DA and EFF councillors requested the appointment not be made as there was no official security clearance document for Mbula. The DA requested a division vote on the matter but this was not granted. The EFF also did not approve Mbula’s appoint. When the Dispatch asked Mbula about the criminal record he said: “I am not aware of the report, I will need to consult the authors of the report first before I can answer that question.” National spokesman for the Ministry of Justice and Correctional Services Mthunzi Mhaga said there were no minor offence in terms of schedule six offences. “There is no such thing as a minor offence under this schedule. Those are serious offences; it is rape of a minor, armed robbery, premeditated murder and the murder of a witness [among other cases]. Schedule six offences are very serious offences,” said Mhaga. BCM mayor Xola Pakati, deputy mayor Zoliswa Matana and council speaker Alfred Mtsi were reportedly some of the councillors pushing for approval of the appointment. The position was re-advertised last March, together with the positions for head of department for economic development, public safety and emergency services and municipal services. This after cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Fikile Xasa rejected the flawed appointments made for the positions when Sandile Booi was appointed as head of human settlements. The council has since filled the position for economic development and agencies with Noludwe Ncokazi. Vuyani Lwana was appointed head of health, public safety and emergency services. The position for head of municipal services has yet to be filled. The matter will be forwarded to Xasa “within 14 days of councils approval for such appointment being obtained”. Mbula is currently working in BCM’s infrastructure services department as a general manager. — mamelag@dispatch.co.za The Democratic Alliance in Buffalo City Metro wants mayor Xola Pakati to be held to account for a tangle over extending the contracts of acting metro department heads. The party claims Pakade misled council into endorsing the extensions despite their being unlawful. The council resolved on December 14 to extend… December 29, 2016 The Buffalo City Metro council has appointed a new city manager with effect from June 1 2017. After months of processes undertaken by the metro to fill the position, Andile Sihlahla made the cut and was yesterday successfully appointed into the highly contested job despite the ANC’s opposition in council,… May 27, 2017 Buffalo City Metro is fighting a losing battle with illegal land invaders despite winning court orders to prevent the crisis from spreading. In a new report tabled last month before council by city manager Andile Sihlahla to appraise the council on steps being taken by the metro to enforce court… October 3, 2017