The beachfront hero who grappled with an armed suspect after an elderly British couple were mugged in Port Elizabeth did not even realise he had been shot as he wrestled with the gunman.  Rest Pemhiwa‚ 35‚ was lauded for his bravery by a delegation of police top brass‚ including the new Mount Road Cluster commander‚ who visited him at St George’s Hospital on Thursday. Pemhiwa was shot in the hip in the scuffle with the 19-year-old suspect who had just allegedly robbed the tourists – aged 86 and 74 – as they rested on a bench during a stroll in Marine Drive‚ Summerstrand‚ on Wednesday. Speaking from his hospital bed yesterday‚ the camera-shy hero – who is from Zimbabwe but has lived in South Africa for 16 years – said he had been erecting branding at bus stops along Marine Drive shortly before the robbery. “I did not even know that I had been shot until I saw all the blood and a hole in my shirt‚” Pemhiwa said. Cluster commander Major-General Thembisile Patekile said Pemhiwa was a hero for chasing down and catching a criminal. Beachfront hero tells of battle with mugger  — The Herald A handful of men and women in blue, including patrol officers, detectives, administrative staff, a communicator and even messengers, were recognised for their hard work at the Eastern Cape SAPS annual excellence awards held at the East London beachfront on Friday. Among the deeds lauded were successful convictions, bravery and… November 14, 2016 Stabbed, he still manages to shoot one. A 73-YEAR-OLD East London grandfather bravely fought off two armed attackers a third of his age, shooting and wounding one in the process Norman Hill of Greenfields was confronted by two men who forced their way into his house just after 8am while… August 13, 2014 A QUICK thinking off-duty provincial traffic officer who foiled an armed robbery in Mthatha last week was honoured with a certificate of bravery yesterday. The 50-year-old officer involved in a deadly gun-fight with four armed robbers at Mthatha’s popular Circus Triangle mall on Tuesday was presented with the certificate by… July 29, 2014