Seven young people, including a woman, have been arrested in connection with the beating a 34-year-old man to death over the weekend.  The man allegedly stole a solar panel in Mbizana  Police spokeswoman Captain Edith Mjoko said the suspects aged between 20 to 27 were arrested on Sunday following the Saturday killing. “The suspects from Dlangezwe in Madiba administrative area in Mbizana went door-to-door searching for a stolen solar panel, which are the source of electricity in the area. It is alleged that the solar panel was found in the deceased’s house. “He was allegedly beaten with sticks and other weapons and sustained serious injuries to the head and was left dead. Seven people, including a woman, have been arrested and are facing a murder charge,” said Mjoko. EmaXesibeni SAPS Cluster Commander Brigadier Mthuthuzeli Mtukushe strongly condemned the killing and urged people not to take the law into their own hands. “We cannot tolerate mayhem … People killing others on the accusation of having committed a crime,” said Mtukushe. They are due to appear in the Mbizana Magistrate’s Court today. The Eastern Cape has been rocked by yet another alleged incident of cannibalism. This time, the community of KwaBhaca, formerly Mount Frere, is in shock after a man allegedly kidnapped, killed and ate the flesh believed to be that of a woman he abducted earlier on Saturday. This is the… September 11, 2017 A policeman, an alleged child rapist and two brothers were among eight men who were killed in separate incidents between Christmas Eve and Boxing Day in the former Transkei region of the Eastern Cape. One of those who died was a 32-year-old man who was stabbed to death by the mother of… December 27, 2017 Two elderly women were hacked to death during a bloody Sunday in the Eastern Cape. Mthatha police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the two women, aged 59 and 61, were killed while sleeping  in their homes in Mandleni village in Ngqeleni. In both instances, the attackers forced their way into the… December 9, 2014