A couple who were brutally beaten with steel pipes and burnt with a hot laundry iron during a farm robbery outside Kimberley in the Northern Cape are recuperating in hospital. Piet Els‚ 86‚ and Rikkie Alsemgeest‚ 66‚ were attacked by four men in the early hours of Wednesday. The robbers fled with Krugerrands‚ diamonds‚ jewellery and their car at sunrise. Family friend Ruhan Swanepoel said: “There were four robbers. They gained entry through the back door. “They disconnected the electricity before entering the house. Immediately when they got into the house the generators went on‚ the robbers then went to switch that off also.” The couple‚ left in the dark‚ initially thought that cats living on the property were causing a commotion. “The robbers then went into the bedroom and attacked the couple. They forced him to open the safe but he couldn’t open it because he was so dazed by the blows to his head‚” Swanepoel said. Els is a prominent businessman from Kimberley who owns various properties and a game farm. Swanepoel said Alsemgeest was burnt on her head with an iron and Els on his feet. “But he was so rattled by the attack that he couldn’t open the safe. They used a grinder to gain entry into the safe. They stole jewellery‚ Krugerrands‚ diamonds‚ cash and they took his car‚” he said.
The vehicle was later found abandoned. A Fort Beaufort pensioner yesterday recounted how she survived a robbery that claimed the life of her husband, Eric Moss. Louisa Cornelia Moss, 88, told of how she was assaulted and her husband was killed when four assailants entered their Newsome Street home on Sunday. Moss, who had been smoking… December 13, 2017 A Stoneyridge man at home recovering from a heart attack was punched in his face, hit with a plank and robbed by seven men yesterday. George Hatton, 56, who suffered a second heart attack barely two months ago, was beaten when he tried to stop the gang stealing his neighbour’s… February 5, 2015 A spate of armed robberies across East London has business owners on edge. Since the start of the month, 10 city premises have been attacked by armed men – two of them yesterday. At 5.30pm yesterday, five men, each armed with a 9mm pistol, robbed Prestons Liquor Store in Fleet… November 29, 2017