Second deputy general secretary of the South African Communist Party (SACP)  Solly Mapaila has called for both the heads of President Jacob Zuma and ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule. Speaking at  the Boyce Melitafa memorial in East London on Sunday Mapaila said although they had accepted the outcomes of the 54th ANC conference, they were set on analysing the new leadership. “The ANC has set two NEC meetings and out of those meetings there has been no decision on the removal of Zuma who has enabled the capture of the state by the Gupta family. I think that we have given the ANC too many chances to decide on the removal of Zuma,” said Mapaila. The alliance partner leader further called for swift action against the former Free State premier, saying his implication in  the Estina dairy farm project near Vrede  compromised the office  he currently serves in. “We as the SACP have given up our independence and the ANC carries our identity, we are going into the 2019 elections where the SG is meant to be at the centre of our campaign and yet he is tainted. In the next sitting of the ANC it must be a clear decision on the position of the secretary-general,” said Mapaila.    Corruption, state capture, factionalism within the ANC- led tripartite alliance and the SACP’s call for South Africa to ditch capitalism for socialism will be some of the issues tackled in East London this weekend. SACP second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila is expected to address the party’s Eastern Cape provincial… October 28, 2016 Solly Mapaila‚ the deputy general secretary of the SA Communist Party‚ has submitted an affidavit to the Inspector General of Intelligence (IGI)‚ accusing President Jacob Zuma of lying about his firing of finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy‚ Mcebisi Jonas. Zuma reshuffled his cabinet at the end of March‚… July 18, 2017 Solly Mapaila‚ the deputy secretary general of the SA Communist Party‚ has submitted an affidavit to the inspector general of intelligence‚ accusing President Jacob Zuma of lying about why he fired former finance minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy‚ Mcebisi Jonas. Zuma reshuffled his cabinet at the end of March‚… July 17, 2017