For East London choreographer Vicky Luff putting on another glamorous Valentine month show at the Arts Theatre in East London has special meaning because this is the little theatre where she first met her husband 25 years ago. Luff, who was 13 at the time, was in the chorus of director George Mountjoy’s play Peter Pan when she befriended 16-year-old Wesley Luff, who also had a part in the musical. “We had a little romance but only started dating six years later,” said Luff, 36, who now gets her whole family involved in the annual Valentine charity shows. This year she will be choreographing Roll of the Dice, which opens on February 14 for an 11-day run. “Wesley now helps with maintenance of the theatre and has even fixed tables, while my daughter Kiara, 10, comes to every rehearsal and helps out with costume changes and has danced in it since she was five. This year I am dancing a duet with her. My son Kaylib, 13, has also performed in one show.” Roll of the Dice, which also stars popular vocalist and musical director Kerry Hiles, has a glitzy casino theme with an unusual “Lady Luck” format and songs like Queen of Hearts, Waking up in Vegas and Luck be a Lady. “A large dice will be rolled and each of the tables will decide which number we perform next, which will keep things interesting. We would like audiences to dress up in a Casino Royale theme too.” Directed by Amanda Bothma, the show also features Carlien Jordaan, Cindy Bester, Daniel Anderson, Jonathan Buitendag, Kristie van Zyl, Marietjie Jordaan, Mary Barry, Megan Francis, Nathan Johanisson and Pieter van Zyl. “Kerry and Jonathan will switch roles because, besides singing, Kerry will play the bass for some numbers, while he will play drums.” Luff, who is also the chairperson of the Arts Theatre board, said the theatre is considering moving from its Arcadia location to a more central spot. “The roof has been patched over the years, but we need a new one as well as new floors and aircon and the lights and sound need to be revamped, so we are looking at a five to 10-year plan to find a new building and move.” l Tickets for Roll of the Dice are available by liking the Arts Theatre of East London Facebook page. Each night from February 14 to February 24 will be handled by a different charity which will sell tickets ranging from R100 to R130 each. — barbarah@dispatch More than 70 young dancers will take part in a “mini university of dance” at a Dorchester Heights dance and pilates studio for two weeks before their rehearsals culminate in an exciting dance extravaganza at the Guild Theatre in December. This is the 10th year Dynamic Body Studio owner Vicky… November 28, 2017 East London’s most talented performers will tonight resurrect the spirit of the Spanish empire when they perform a Valentine’s cabaret. Every year the Arts Theatre selects a new theme for its annual cabaret. This year’s production, The Secret Rose, celebrates the vibrant Spanish culture, from Spain to South America. The… February 12, 2015 THE Guild Theatre will stage Broadway!, which brings to life the stories, stars and songs of musical theatre on Monday, April 18, as part of its fundraising “Show must go on” campaign. Last year, the East London theatre launched the campaign to raise funds to purchase equipment that would enable… April 14, 2016