A young man from Mthatha in the Eastern Cape is making his mark as a chef in one of the plushest hotels in Texas in the USA. The 24-year-old Wandile Mabija, who graduated from the Capsicum Culinary Studio‚ was excited to go overseas and‚ also‚ sad to leave friends and family behind. “When I first arrived in Austin [state capital of Texas]‚ it was a bit challenging, since I knew nothing about the place and how to go around. I had to learn which bus to take to get to work. I had to also search for places to buy good food for my flat. To be honest it was an exciting yet challenging experience. It was my first time out of South Africa‚ so this trip was everything I dreamt of‚” said Mabija. His dream to venture into the international community was made possible through the help of a travelling agency. “It was tough to leave my family behind. I have two siblings – Thando and Siphesihle – who both live in Mthatha‚ and both studying in Port Elizabeth‚ as well as my dad, Mxolisi, and my mother, Lindelwa. But it was an opportunity too good to pass up‚” said Mabija. Working at the Fairmont Austin Hotel in Austin cemented his passion for cooking. “Cooking has always been my first passion. It was something I really loved and wanted to be involved with in some way. My mother really pushed me and supported me to follow my culinary calling. I decided to go to one of the open days at the Capsicum Port Elizabeth campus and I fell in love with the school‚” Mabija said. — DDC Mthatha's music scene has given birth to some great artists over the years. Black Coffee, Monea, Lulo Café ... all call the city home but all had to move to Johannesburg to achieve stardom. Frustrated musicians who choose to continue living in the city ask why they have to leave… December 11, 2014 As I make my way into the Mthatha Community Art Centre in Richardson Park near Mthatha’s once affluent suburb of Norwood, I keep wondering if I have acquired enough “hip-hop” vocabulary for my interview with Musa Maki, commonly known as Top Shayela in hip-hop circles. Not only is the man… November 28, 2015 FINALLY, on Friday December 20 2013, I made my way back to Mthatha. I wanted to go and say my last goodbye and pay my respects at Madiba’s gravesite. I was not the only one who wasn’t allowed at the burial. Meme, the housekeeper, and Betty, one of the household… December 6, 2014