The ANC’s Chris Hani region in the Eastern Cape stands by its birthday cake and claims it was worth every piece of icing. The cake, which was ridiculed all over social media, was donated to the region by an unnamed supplier of the Chris Hani municipality. Comments, cruel and witty, included: “It looks like bricks to build a rondavel somewhere in the Transkei”, “It looks like it is made out of clay”, “The ANC must suspend baking for a month!”, “It breaks the record for being the ugliest cake to ever be built by the human species”, “Mud bricks!” and “Bread baked in an imbawula [rural oven]”. Eastern Cape ANC regional executive committee member Lindiwe Gunuza said they were happy with the cake as it was a gift. “We did not pay for it because it was donated, so really we cannot be answering for how the cake turned out,” said Gunuza. All eight ANC regions across the province held cake-cutting ceremonies, with the main being held at the Buffalo City Metro, where newly elected ANC president, Cyril Ramaphosa, cut the party’s 106th birthday cake. As the pictures surfaced on social media, a picture competition for the best and the worst cake started. Catching the attention had to be the King Dalindyebo Sabata sub-region cake, which was slated for being shapeless. Joe Gqabi managed a well-shaped cake but was criticised for not getting the ANC colours right. But the Chris Hani region cake caused the most commotion. Bongiwe van Heerden, who was tasked with organising the cake, told the Dispatch she asked Chris Hani municipal manager Moppo Mene to arrange for someone from among the municipality’s suppliers to donate a cake. “I don’t know who baked the cake. We did see the commentary on social media but there is really nothing we can do about it. We had a cake and we had a successful cake-cutting ceremony and we were pleased with the turnout and our NEC guests,” said Van Heerden. — simthandilef@dispatch.co.za An Eastern Cape municipal mayor, two council speakers and an ANC chief whip have been given their marching orders. This follows a Daily Dispatch report two months ago which revealed that ANC bosses in Calata House had decided that Tsolwana mayor Khayalethu Nqithi and chief whip Noluthando Nqabisa were in… November 12, 2014 ANC and government leaders who have lost public confidence must step aside to honour the values of former South African Communist Party (SACP) leader Chris Hani. This was Eastern Cape premier and ANC provincial chairman, Phumulo Masualle’s message yesterday at the Chris Hani Memorial Lecture in Cofimvaba. Masualle, who is… April 11, 2017 The Eastern Cape delegation at the ongoing ANC national conference at Nasrec is crying exclusion by session chair Baleka Mbete during plenary debates. This was raised by an Eastern Cape delegate from Chris Hani region who identified himself as "Tata kaTununu". "You must remember that the Eastern Cape is still… December 17, 2017