A heated argument between EFF members and a principal erupted outside an East London school yesterday morning, where EFF members were picketing because parents were being charged money to pay towards the salaries of two staff members at the no-fee school. The deputy chairman of the EFF ward 5 branch, Andile Faye, said the picket outside Uviwe Senior Secondary School in Scenery Park started on Wednesday when schools reopened. Community members informed them parents were made to pay R320 a year, even though it was a no-fee school. It is alleged that R200 went towards paying the salary of a maths teacher who was appointed by the school governing (SGB) and R120 or R10 per month was to pay the school’s caretaker. The school governing body (SGB) member, Nontembiso Jezile, said parents had agreed to contribute these monies. “One of our maths teachers retired last year. The department of education was informed but they failed to replace the teacher, so as parents we decided to appoint this teacher and make a contribution to her salary,” said Jezile. Dispatch overheard the caretaker telling the EFF crowd he had worked for the school for 15 years but he still did not get any salary from the department of education and the school was paying him with the money collected from parents. When the Dispatch arrived at the school around mid-morning, a handful of EFF members had branded the school’s main entrance with EFF colours. The gates were locked and everything seemed to be normal inside the school grounds. The EFF members had set up a branded gazebo against the school’s fence, and their branded banner was hung in front of the school. Within a few minutes school principal Vuyani Mgqolozana emerged from inside the school, accompanied by police officers. A fuming Mgqolozana started shouting at the Dispatch’s photographer and the on-line reporter for taking pictures and video’s. “What kind of people are you? I came here to teach, now you want to put me in the paper,” said Mgqolozana. The police also attempted to stop the Dispatch from recording, with one police officer even claiming: “This could be a crime scene!” A new parent at the school, who asked not to be named, fearing that his daughter might be singled out, said he had paid the amount into the school’s bank account on Wednesday after he was asked to do so. “I was shocked because I thought this was a no-fee school, but because I was desperate to get my child enrolled, I paid the money. I was told to deposit the money into a bank account that was supplied and bring the deposit slip to school as proof,” said the parent. Faye said that in a meeting held with the SAPS, SGB and the principal, they had agreed to approach the department of education to inquire about the payment. “The payment of school staff is not the parents’ responsibility. The department should be paying them,” said Faye. Provincial education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said no-fee schools were not allowed to charge parents any money. Mtima said they would investigate at the school. — arethal@dispatch.co.za Teaching and learning came to a standstill for hundreds of pupils at Uviwe Senior Secondary School in Scenery Park yesterday. The principal at the East London school, Vuyani Mgqolozana, said staff members arrived for duty before school started at 7.45am to find the gates locked by the school governing body… August 1, 2017 A rural village school in Mthatha has come under fire from angry parents for kicking out around 100 pupils who failed to pay R450, allegedly meant for school fees. This is despite the school – AV Plaatjie Senior Senior Secondary in Payne location, less than 15km from the city centre –… May 4, 2016 EASTERN Cape parents may have to dig a little deeper  to ensure their kids receive a good education next year. Schools recently revealed their fee structures for next year to prospective and current pupils’ parents. Some have increased fees by up to 9%, citing mounting debts and increasing teacher salaries… November 9, 2014