Rape and sexual assault-accused former teacher Neil le Roux laughed quietly while his legal counsel did their best to frame his alleged abuse of a schoolgirl in a way to imply it was nothing more than the “safe haven” of fatherly affection.  The girl, who was 13 and in Grade 7 at a top East London school when he allegedly began to sexually groom her, endured a second day of gruelling cross-examination by her former teacher’s defence advocate Neil Schoeman in the East London Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. The girl’s testimony is that between 2014 and 2016, Le Roux kissed her three times, once with his tongue, put his hand on her thigh when he was driving her home, kissed her neck, licked her ear and repeatedly and intensely embraced her with his head on her chest and his hands on her buttocks. She said he also manipulated her emotionally by telling her to push her boundaries and by implying she was not committed enough to the relationship. When they were with other people Le Roux would squint at her to show her he was thinking of her. The alleged abuse ended in April 2016 when when a teacher inadvertently saw Schoeman embrace the girl in his classroom after giving her an extra Afrikaans lesson. Former Grade 7 primary school teacher Neil Pieter le Roux yesterday pleaded not guilty to five counts including rape, sexual assault and sexual grooming of children at the beginning of his trial in the East London Regional Court. The 67-year-old retired teacher is accused of raping and sexually assaulting a… October 31, 2017 A schoolgirl broke down and cried in the witness box yesterday while relaying how former Grade 7 primary school teacher Neil Pieter le Roux had tricked her into believing he was right for her. The girl was testifying on-camera for a second day in the rape, sexual assault and sexual… November 4, 2017 A schoolgirl who was allegedly groomed and sexually assaulted by her former Grade 7 teacher, Neil le Roux, broke down in sobs in the East London Magistrate’s Court while being cross-examined. She testified how he had sexually violated her during an extra Afrikaans lesson at a top East London school.… January 18, 2018