Eastern Cape health MEC Dr Phumza Dyantyi has expressed shock at the killing of an off-duty paramedic, who was gunned down in his KwaLindile village home in Mthatha at the weekend. The MEC said Khanyisile Lumkwana, who was attached to the health department’s emergency medical services and rescue unit in Mthatha, had scarce skills within the unit, which worked with jaws of life to free people trapped in wreckages. Provincial police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni confirmed the shooting. “No arrest has been made yet,” he said. Tonjeni said the rescue medic was off-duty on the night he was killed. lMeanwhile, a 29-year-old man was killed while allegedly trying to break into a tuck shop and tavern at Mandela Park near Mthatha at about 2.30am on Saturday. “The suspected thief was chased by some community members in the vicinity. He was allegedly caught and beaten and police established that he had some bullet holes in his body,” said Tonjeni. A case of murder has been opened but no arrests have been made. A case of robbery has also been opened against the deceased. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za Nelson Mandela Bay Hawks are on the hunt for three men who brutally gunned down a police sergeant and his paramedic friend. Sergeant Mzwabantu Xhathasi and his friend Ishmael Phumeza, both 39, were gunned down while chatting at the latter’s home in Tshangana Street, New Brighton, around 7.30pm on Wednesday.… July 17, 2015 The provincial government has has given hitchhiking the thumbs up. Transport, safety and liaison MEC Weziwe Tikana was addressing taxi and bus owners at a transport stakeholder dialogue in Mthatha on Monday night. She said people were free to ask for rides on the side of the road so long as… June 18, 2015 A land grab battle erupted yesterday as two communities fought to stake their claim on a cattle farmer’s property. Police were called in as more than 300 people moved onto the 300ha farm and began marking out sites. This followed weekend action by another community to demarcate their plots on… September 16, 2015