A child who was beaten into a deep coma by an allegedly deranged man a year ago was one of the first to walk through the gates when schools opened yesterday. Delighted eight-year-old Lathitha Makeleni, who was in a coma for three months, made a joyous entry into the corridors of the Centre of Excellence Primary School in Southernwood. Lathitha’s mother, Zanele Makeleni, his two aunts and his cousin, all drove to school with him to cheer him on. Lathitha was one of 120000 Grade 1 pupils who started school yesterday. “I am going to school today, I am looking forward to playing soccer with other children and making new friends,” said Lathitha. It was touch and go after Lathitha was attacked allegedly by Daluxolo Nyovane, 27, who is from his neighbourhood, on December 12 2016. Nyovane’s fitness to stand trial has had a long journey through the court system. On November 16 last year, magistrate Twanet Olivier postponed the case while urging that the matter be dealt with urgently. Earlier, a psychiatrist found that Nyovane was “incapable of following court proceedings” but the director of public prosecutions in Grahamstown wanted a regional court to make the decision. The magistrate’s court heard that Nyovane lifted the youngster off the ground and slammed him head-first into the tar. Lathitha’s head injuries caused swelling and bleeding on the brain, and put him into a deep coma. But the little fighter shocked medical staff when he regained consciousness and recovered well. His mother said: “We never thought this day would come… It has been a long journey to recovery. After two weeks in a coma, he started showing signs of improvement. Hospital staff were calling him a miracle child. I believed that in my heart of hearts he would pull through but the turnaround was still a wonderful surprise.” Zanele said a few minutes after he joined his friends playing in the street, her sister heard a woman screaming. They ran out and found Lathitha lying bleeding, unresponsive, with his eyes wide open. He was rushed to Cecilia Makiwane Hospital and later referred to ICU in Frere Hospital. “I’ve never seen a head swelling so big in such a short space of time but that image is fading daily as I see his smile and him being himself every day,” said Makeleni . Nyovane was arrested immediately and the case is ongoing. — simthandilef@dispatch.co.za  A five-year-old Mdantsane boy whose body was slammed on to a tarred road by a suspected mentally ill man last Wednesday is still in coma fighting for his life. Families in the NU3 community where the attack happened have been left reeling with shock. Traumatised children are refusing to leave… January 4, 2017 A formal inquiry into the mental wellness of attempted murder accused Daluxolo Nyovane, 27, was delayed in the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court yesterday when his family withdrew the service of a Legal Aid attorney. The family has now appointed advocate Thozama Mduba to represent Nyovane. The inquiry was set down for… November 17, 2017 A formal inquiry into the mental wellness of attempted murder accused Daluxolo Nyovane will be held in the Mdantsane Regional Court on Thursday. The state was hoping the inquiry would be pushed forward to two weeks’ time but Mdantsane regional magistrate Twanet Olivier said: “November 27 is a bit long… November 14, 2017