The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation has confirmed it is investigating the R630-million toilet scandal at Amathole district municipality. At the time the municipal manager of Amathole was Chris Magwangqana, the new manager of Enoch Mgijima local municipality. The directorate, known as the Hawks, had been requested by the National Treasury to conduct the probe. Hawks spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni said: “The Hawks’ investigation into the alleged Amathole district municipality toilet scandal is at an advanced stage. “Further details will be revealed once the investigation is concluded.” The investigation, however, did not stop cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Fikile Xasa from signing a letter of concurrence paving the way for Magwangqana to become manager at Enoch Mgijima. In his letter, which the Daily Dispatch has seen, Xasa said he was satisfied the appointment was in line with Section 54 of the amended Municipal Systems Act 32. Xasa had previously, while Magwangqana was unemployed after his contract with Amathole came to an end in 2017, wanted to second him to Enoch Mgijima. But its council rejected this secondment, saying they did not have money to pay him. They said they wanted someone working for Cogta to be seconded instead, as this would ensure the salary would be paid by them. “I can confirm the compliance of the appointment of Mr Ntsokolo Chris Magwangqana for a period of five years as the municipal manager for Enoch Mgijima local municipality as he meets the minimum requirements,” the letter reads. Xasa said Magwangqana should sign a “well-crafted employment contract” including details of the duties, remuneration, benefits and conditions of employment as agreed between council and Magwangqana. This, Xasa said, should be done before the commencement of his duties, and within five working days a copy should be submitted to his department. It could not be established if this directive was adhered to as Enoch Mgijima spokesman Fundile Feketshane had not responded to e-mailed questions by deadline. “The signed employment contract must take cognisance of the pending investigation involving his [Magwangqana’s] previous employment contract at Amathole district municipality as the municipal manager,” Xasa wrote. Within 60 working days, Xasa wrote, a performance agreement should be signed between mayor Lindiwe Gunuza Nkwentsha and Magwangqana. Magwangqana was Amathole manager when the district authority was involved in the R630-million Siyenza Group toilet scandal, which involved very few of the 66000 toilets planned for rural areas actually being built. A SizweNtsalubaGobodo forensic report into the scandal recommended that Magwangqana face criminal and disciplinary action for his role. No response had been received from Amathole as to whether action was taken against Magwangqana. The SizweNtsalubaGobodo report stated: “The Hawks provincial task team for the Eastern Cape has been requested by National Treasury to conduct a further criminal investigation based on the findings.” Magwangqana has denied he was being investigated as “a person”. “The auditors are investigating the project as a whole,” he said. Magwangqana’s approval of the multimillion-rand expenditure was a violation of supply chain processes, as revealed by the Daily Dispatch in a 2015 award-winning exposé. — zolilem@tisoblackstar.co.za