A burglary suspect who broke through a Port Elizabeth bank’s front door on Wednesday night – punching through the glass with his hands – was arrested just an hour later. The 23-year-old had allegedly stolen just a computer monitor. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the suspect shattered the front door of the Absa Bank in Govan Mbeki Avenue‚ North End‚ around 11pm. She said police were immediately alerted when the bank’s security systems picked up movement inside. “The K9 Unit responded to the scene but on arrival the man had already fled. Traces of blood were found inside the bank after the suspect injured himself the burglary‚” Naidu said. “The CCTV footage was then viewed by the bank’s off-site monitoring company who relayed a description of the suspect to police. Cameras show the suspect running inside‚ grabbing a computer screen and fleeing. “The outside cameras showed the man running into a nearby side street.” Naidu said the suspect was found walking in Middle Street‚ around the corner‚ within an hour of the burglary. “His hands were cut and the computer monitor was under his arm. He did not attempt to run when he realised he was caught.” The suspect is expected to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court on a charge of burglary on Friday. The Hawks have arrested more than 10 people for defrauding banks with fake matric certificates, fraudulent cheques and IDs. Most of the arrests were carried out in East London, Port Elizabeth and Mthatha during the past few weeks. Police believe the arrested suspects could work for a syndicate involved in… May 17, 2016 Two SBV security guards were treated in Life St Dominic’s hospital in East London yesterday after they were shot and injured by a gang of six men before their assault rifles and millions of rands belonging to various banks were stolen yesterday morning. The dramatic cash-in-transit heist and abduction began… July 22, 2017 A SUSPECT in a card skimming case dropped his application for bail minutes after watching video footage of himself allegedly cloning a bank card at a cash machine. Unathi Mbola allegedly has been duping cash machine customers out of their card details and then their money, for 10 years. Yesterday,… October 22, 2013