The search is on for 300 aspiring fashion designers to be mentored by popular Madiba shirt designer, Sonwabile Ndamase, as part of his learnership programme carried out in partnership with the services Seta. The programme, launched in 2016, sees 65 learners being equipped with essential skills to start and operate successful businesses in the fashion industry. Fewer than half of the group of 150 throughout the country who started with the programme, will graduate later this year. This year, Ndamase aims to empower 150 youths from the Eastern Cape and 150 from other parts of the country. “The intake is for young people residing within the jurisdictions of Amathole District Municipality, Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality, Mnquma Municipality and Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality. “The Eastern Cape currently has an unemployment rate of 32.2% and is rated among the poorest in the country. In addressing this societal crisis, and striving to ensure the province retains its talent, young people between the ages of 18 and 40 possessing formal fashion design and craft qualifications are encouraged to apply before January 28 2018 for an opportunity to participate in the New Venture Creation,” he said. To qualify for the New Venture Creation NQF Level 2 Learnership, a candidate must be a South African citizen with a Diploma in Fashion, Further Education and Training Certificate NQF Level 4 or National Certificate in Vocational Studies NQF Level 4. “Successful applicants will receive a monthly stipend together with theory and practical hands-on experience to nurture their trade, and a chance to build successful fashion brands. We are looking for determined and ambitious people with aspirations of owning their own businesses one day and entrepreneurs who can contribute towards the growing fight against poverty and joblessness in the province,” he said. “The core strategy behind this project is to bring to the attention of the government that we can use fashion to take the Home of Legends [Eastern Cape] brand abroad,” said Ndamase. “For this to happen what better way than to empower the youth who in turn will help sustain the campaign and offer fresh identities and expressions about what it is to be young, gifted and living in the Home of Legends.” Interested graduates are invited to submit their applications including CV, original copies of certified certificates (qualifications), medical proof of disability (if applicable) on or before 28 January 2018 to: Postal and physical address: SAFDA Offices, August House, 1st Floor
76 End Street Johannesburg 2001
Email: ykhanyisa@gmail.com
Fax to Email: 086 542 1478 Sonwabile Ndamase, pioneering designer of the world-famous Madiba shirt, is helping rural youngsters set up their own design businesses. The Eastern Cape-born fashion designer will be helping five fashion design cooperatives in Ntabankulu, one of the poorest areas in the country. The co-ops are made up of young people and… September 19, 2015 Unemployed youth in the Amathole district with a passion for fashion can apply for a life-changing opportunity with the South African Fashion Designers Agency (Safda). The agency was founded by fashion guru Sonwabile Ndamase who addressed a media briefing in East London yesterday attended by cooperative government traditional affairs head… January 28, 2016 FORMER president Nelson Mandela’s signature shirts have been flying off the shelves since the elderly statesman was hospitalised. Sonwabile Ndamase, the creator of the famous Madiba shirt, said he has also been inundated by companies wanting to buy the shirts to commemorate Mandela’s birthday next month. The Presidency announced on… June 27, 2013