 Fridays in Mdantsane will never be the same. Radio host, hip-hop artist and music producer Silulami “Slujah” Bunu presents the first ever Music and Comedy Nights – The Vibe to Mdantsane. The organiser said he was creating a platform for talented performing artists from all over the Eastern Cape to showcase their talents every first and third Friday at the popular hangout spot, Mthombo’s Palace in NU7. “As a performing artist myself, I know how difficult it is to not be recognised or even get a platform to perform, so you can be seen. “There is so much talent in the Buffalo City Metro. Some ended up giving up. This project is here to change all of that,” he said. “I want to create an environment of entertainment for business networking, style and entertainment, but most importantly to bring a new vibe to the people and give artists an opportunity to perform and showcase their skills in front of a crowd, where someone might spot them.” With February being the month of love, the debut show will be called the “Valentine’s edition”, and will take place on February 16. The audience can show their love by helping the TeeLo Foundation by donating school uniforms to primary schools in Tsholomnqa. Tabisa Loliwe, founder of the foundation, said: “I am happy to be working with Silulami on this project. I was fortunate to have him as a partner. “We would also like the people attending the show to please assist us where they can by donating school clothing for children aged between five and 14 years and other academic facilities,” she said. Performing artists that are interested in being a part of the Music and Comedy Night can send an e-mail to mcn.thevibe@gmail.com with their profile and a clip of their performance. “There is no specific genre because the shows aim to cater for everyone. “We will not let good talent go to waste. We want the youth to be able to take care of themselves financially as well and not depend on the government or anyone else. “With the necessary resources and support, Eastern Cape artists can fill up any stadium,” Bunu said. Tickets will be available at the door for R30. Doors open at 6pm. JAZZ artist and producer, Thembelani Batala, has dedicated his life to assist up and coming artists from rural areas and townships to help showcase their talent. The Ndevana-born music sensation said he believed people who were talented should not be exploited but use their talent to make a good living.… March 14, 2013 South African Traditional Music Achievers Awards- (Satma) nominated rapper Kweries has released his long-anticipated third album, titled Rewind. Speaking with the Daily Dispatch yesterday, Kweries, whose real name is Siyabulela Rasmeni, said he was happy with his latest work. On this album, Rasmeni reminds his die-hard supporters of the good… November 8, 2017 EASTERN Cape Christian hip-hop radio DJ pioneer Walter Mdangayi, recently released his first rap album. Mdangayi, also known as Incense, started his Hip-Hop Youthology show on Link FM in 2007. The show was the first of its kind in the province and saw many artists sharing their talent and spreading… April 19, 2013