The parents of pupils at two no-fee schools in the Chris Hani West education district say the schools are demanding money to accept their children. Teaching at Nzimankulu Senior Secondary School in Cacadu and Edlelweni Primary School in Komani did not start last week, as parents claimed pupils were turned away for failing to pay school fees and a school donation, although the principals from both schools denied there were problems. At Nzimankulu SSS pupils were apparently turned away for not paying school fees of R500, while at Edlelweni primary for not paying a R100 donation to the school governing body. Anelwa Nobaza said his children, who should be attending Nzimankulu SSS, were at home. He said other parents were looking for loans to have their children registered. “If you don’t have the money you don’t get registered, and those who did not pay last year did not get their reports,” he said. “Last year the school fee was R300 and this year it went up to R500. On top of that I had to pay an extra R800 for the textbook my child lost,” he added, saying most of the children denied entry were intelligent pupils who would boost the school’s academic performance. Parents had reported the matter to the education department but no action had been taken. Nzimankulu SSS principal Lungile Nyukwana said the money some pupils paid was for lost textbooks and anniversary celebrations. He denied that some pupils were told to go home. “There are those that we are still negotiating with, who did not pay for lost textbooks,” he said. Edlelweni parent Phumla Oliphant said her children were being denied access to education. “How are we going to pay the money while we are unemployed and we depend on the R350 we get from [a] child’s grant,” she said. Oliphant said pupils who had not paid the R100 SGB donation were told to stay outside while those who paid continued with classes. “My child has lost two days of classes and there is nothing that I can do to pay the money,” she said. Other parents showed a Dispatch team receipts showing they had paid money as a donation to the SGB. A group of more than six women complained to the Dispatch at Edlelweni that their children could not apply to register at high schools because they had not received their reports. Unemployed Phumeza Mlingwana said her son, Ndoda, was at home and could not go to high school. “I owe the school R100 and don’t have the money.” She slammed the school for not considering poor people when making decisions that affected them. Edlelweni primary principal Zukisani Sondlo denied that they were withholding pupils’ reports. Provincial department of education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima asked the Dispatch to send him questions, but had not responded to them at the time of going to print. — thembiles@dispatch.co.za A rural village school in Mthatha has come under fire from angry parents for kicking out around 100 pupils who failed to pay R450, allegedly meant for school fees. This is despite the school – AV Plaatjie Senior Senior Secondary in Payne location, less than 15km from the city centre –… May 4, 2016 Hundreds of pupils from Thembalethu township in Reeston who have been left out of the scholar transport programme are being forced to either walk to school – or bunk. Of the more than 700 pupils in need of transport to school, the Eastern Cape government is only able to cater… August 11, 2015 Childrens rights activist Petrus Majola, of the Khula Community Development Project, has called for fees at all government schools in the province to be scrapped. Majola said a number of pupils from poor backgrounds were being sent home by teachers as their parents could not afford to pay their school… January 19, 2016