An elderly man died on Friday morning when a fire gutted the second floor of a Port Elizabeth frail care centre.   Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said David Oberholzer‚ 73‚ was one of 15 residents at the Executive Frail Care Centre in Colin Street. The other 14 residents‚ most of who use wheelchairs and walking aids‚ were safely evacuated. Naidu said the fire started at about 8am‚ when the 14 residents were in the dining hall downstairs having breakfast. “One of the caregivers went to an upstairs room where the deceased was later found. Because he is an amputee‚ he usually gets meals brought to his room. While the caregiver was walking in the passage‚ she noted a cloud of thick smoke‚” she said. “The alarm was raised and all 14 occupants in the dining room were evacuated. Attempts to get to the deceased failed.” Naidu said the fire department had extinguished the blaze by 9am. “At this stage the cause of the fire remains unknown. Fire department specialists are on the scene and we are awaiting a report from them to establish the exact cause of the fire‚” she said. An inquest docket has been opened. Residents of the DJ Sobey Old Age Home in Buffalo Flats were treated to a surprise yesterday when they received sleepwear from a women’s church group. The Vukani Senior Citizens Touring Club, a group of pensioners from the Methodist Church in Amalinda, donated nighties and pyjamas which they made themselves.… November 25, 2015 Hidden camera footage  of a nurse punching and kicking an elderly woman at an upmarket frail care home has revealed the full extent of the brutal beating. The sustained assault left 84-year-old Lily Kirchmann resident Hope Shepherd with severe injuries including a black eye and extensive bruising to her body.… May 6, 2015 Scores of Knysna residents were forced to flee their homes on Wednesday night as fires fuelled by storm winds ripped through Western Cape coastal town.   Western Cape local governance spokesman James-Brent Styan confirmed the evacuation by emergency services in the town of 77000 resident‚ but he could not immediately… June 8, 2017