Two people were killed while two are in critical condition in hospital when the car they were travelling in overturned on the N6 between Komani and Jamestown this morning.
The accident happened near Ndlovukazi location in Komani.
The Toyota Granvia SUV which had four people in it is believed to have been coming from Lesotho when it overturned, instantly killing the two. Police spokeswoman Captain Namhla Mdleleni said police were investigating a case of culpable homicide.
“Two female occupants died on the scene and the other two who sustained serious injuries and were in a critical condition were taken to Frontier Hospital [in Komani],” she said.
“The investigation into the case is under way. We would like to warn drivers to be careful on the road because people are dying every day on our roads.”
Transport provincial spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie said: “The two females who are Lesotho nationals died on the scene.”
Rantjie said investigators were still piecing together the circumstances that might have led to the crash.
“However, both rear wheels burst. It is still not clear who was the driver as all occupants were ploughed all over the road when emergency services arrived at the scene,” said Rantjie. Six people died and 14 injured when a minibus transporting patients overturned on the N6 road this  morning. The driver of the minibus including five were killed in the accident and 14 sustained injuries and were taken to Frontier Hospital in Komani. Police spokeswoman captain Namhla Mdleleni said a minor… December 6, 2017 Seven people have been killed and seven others are in critical condition after a horror crash on the N6 Road near Queenstown this afternoon. Hyundai minibus and an Avanza collided head on around 2pm on the highway just 5kms from Queenstown. Police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Namhla Mdleleni said  the Avanza… July 13, 2015 Police are searching for the driver of an Avanza who is accused of causing the deaths of three motorists on the busy N6 near Komani. The fatal crash happened on Thursday. It is alleged that the Avanza driver made a sudden U-turn on the national road, resulting in a four-car… January 6, 2018