Late anti-apartheid activist and poet Keorapetse Kgositsile’s life will be celebrated with the soothing sounds of jazz in East London tonight. The eMonti Jazz Society presents a tribute concert for Bra Willie, as Kgositsile was affectionately known, at the Velvet Jazz Club at the East London harbour at 7pm tonight. Kgositsile died last Wednesday at Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg after battling circulatory problems, family spokesman Terry Fowler said last week. He was 79-years old. Award-winning jazz artist Nduduzo Makhathini will entertain the crowd tonight. Event organiser Naniwe Mtshemla said paying tribute to Kgositsile with music was a fitting tribute to the celebrated poet and political activist, saying he had paved the way for many black artists. “It is important to honour such artists because the arts generally played a big role in unifying the people of South Africa against the apartheid system and risking their lives and families to free South Africa. “As a liberated people it is important to recognise their contributions and pay respects to those who came before us,” she said. The tribute for the late prominent member of the ANC coincides with the party’s 106th birthday celebration currently underway in East London. The official celebrations will be at Buffalo City Stadium on Saturday. Mtshemla encouraged music lovers and ANC members to attend the event. “We are expecting to see all types of people who knew Bra Willie and his work during the liberation struggle and especially jazz music lovers,” Mtshemla said. President Jacob Zuma has declared a special official funeral for Kgositsile. He will be buried on Tuesday. The president has ordered that the national flag be flown at half-mast at every flag station on Tuesday. Kgositsile was inaugurated in 2006 as South Africa’s second National Poet Laureate after the first National Poet Laureate Professor Mazisi Kunene. He was also a recipient of the National Order of Ikhamanga for his contribution to the field of literature. Tickets for the concert are R100 at the door. — lisekhom@dispatch.co.za President Jacob Zuma and Parliament have joined many South Africans in paying tribute to the late poet and political activist Professor Keorapetse William Kgositsile‚ popularly known as Bra Willie. Kgositsile‚ who was South Africa’s first National Poet Laureate and a recipient of the National Order of Ikhamanga for his contribution… January 4, 2018 President Jacob Zuma has declared a special official funeral for the late political activist and poet Professor William Keorapetse Kgositsile who died on Wednesday. The funeral will be held on Tuesday‚ January 16. The president has ordered that the national flag be flown at half-mast at every flag station in… January 7, 2018 Former president Kgalema Motlanthe has chastised “governing parties” for expecting artists to publicly pledge support for them. Motlanthe said artists tend to have a far wider reach than political parties. “Thus‚ it is ill-advised for governing parties to expect artists to pledge personal support to them so that they put… March 23, 2017