Exiled Zimbabwe opposition leader Roy Bennett and four other people were killed in a helicopter crash in a remote northern part of the US state of New Mexico – not Canada‚ according to AFP and Reuters. The crash occurred in rugged terrain near Raton‚ New Mexico. News of the death started filtering through on social media as his colleagues in opposition circles confirmed the former Chimanimani member of parliament’s death. MDC-T vice president Nelson Chamisa told TimesLIVE that the opposition has lost a gallant son who wanted to see a new Zimbabwe. “He was a true democrat and really wanted to see the push for a free Zimbabwe‚” he said. People’s Democratic Party leader Tendai Biti took to social media to express his dismay. “What a blow to our struggle. I can’t believe I will never speak to you again‚ Badze‚” he said‚ using one of Bennett’s nicknames. A friend in political circles‚ David Coltart‚ described the Bennett’s as “two of Zimbabwe’s greatest patriots”. Bennett was based in South Africa on political asylum‚ granted in 2007. During his time in exile‚ he played a role in activism for Zimbabwe‚ and particularly the MDC‚ in South Africa. In 2006 he became the treasurer general for the mainstream faction of the MDC‚ led by Morgan Tsvangirai. He was also a spokesman in South Africa and made regular interviews on behalf of the MDC. He returned to Zimbabwe in 2009‚ and Tsvangirai wanted him as deputy agriculture minister – but former President Robert Mugabe refused to swear him in. He was later rearrested for treason‚ but then released. Afterwards‚ he left Zimbabwe for South Africa and never returned. Source: TimesLIVE Source: TMG Digital. By MacDonald Dzirutwe Organisers of a general strike against Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe pledged this week to continue action until he falls, as a spontaneous social media movement has coalesced into the biggest uprising against his rule in nearly a decade. Zimbabweans have been using the internet in recent weeks… July 9, 2016 Investigators have extracted cockpit voice recordings from one of the black boxes of the Airbus plane that smashed into the Alps and expect to have a read-out of their content within days, an official said yesterday. The casing of a second black box has been found but not the box… March 26, 2015 One of the greatest acts of disservice that we Africans do to our fellow citizens is to keep quiet when our brothers and sisters lose their way. We cast down our eyes and hold our tongues when it is time to speak directly and with a clear voice. When Jacob… November 27, 2017