King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo’s younger brother, Prince Mankunku Mthandeni Dalindyebo’s court bid to set aside the appointment Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo to act as the king of AbaThembu, has failed. On February 20 last year, Mankunku filed an application before the Grahamstown High Court to challenge Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle’s decision to appoint Azenathi and wanted it to be set aside and nullified. Today KwaZulu-Natal High Court Division Deputy Judge President Isaac Madondo, who heard the case on December 1, dismissed the application with costs. “The application is dismissed with cost, such costs to include the costs consequent upon the appointment of two counsels. The [Tolo Commission] report regarding the identification of the rightful acting king of AbaThembu kingship is hereby reviewed, declared invalid and set aside with costs. Such costs are to include the costs of a senior counsel,” wrote Madondo in his judgment. AmaDlomo royal family supporting Azenathi, called a press conference at Bumbane Great Place today. “The dark cloud that was over the Dalindyebo house is now over. What is left is to unite with our brothers who took us to court. If they like they can go to as far as the Constitutional Court, but they will not win because there is no substance in their case,” said Nkosi Dumisani Mgudlwa. Mgudlwa said that Azenathi was now going to act for three years instead of the six months, according to the new laws. But, the Ngangelizwe Royal Family, which is is supporting Mankunku, said the matter was still far from being over, saying they were appealing the decision. “We are unmoved by the questionable judgement and and we are not backing down. We will appeal the judgment,” said Ngangelizwe Royal Family chairman Nkosi Thanduxolo Mtirara. Would-be AbaThembu king, prince Mankunku Mthandeni Jongisizwe Dalindyebo’s high court bid to stop the coronation of his nephew, Azenathi Dalindyebo, as acting king of the Thembus will be heard on Wednesday. The matter was supposed to be heard today but there were difficulties in sourcing a judge to hear the… November 22, 2016 A judge from outside the Eastern Cape will preside over a royal row on AbaThembu’s acting kingship after the throne was left vacant following the incarceration of King Buyelekhaya Zwelibanzi Dalindyebo in December 2015. His brother Prince Jongisizwe Mthandeni Mankunku challenged in the Grahamstown High Court premier Phumulo Masualle’s decision… October 29, 2017 A Thembu prince has filed an urgent application in the Grahamstown High Court to stop the Eastern Cape premier from recognising another prince as acting king. Prince Jongisizwe Mthandeni Mankunku wants the court to overturn Phumulo Masualle’s decision to recognise and appoint Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo as acting king. The application… February 22, 2017