Eskom has reversed its position that its R1bn contract with McKinsey was unlawful and has now declared the payment above board‚ even though prosecutors regard it as the proceeds of crime.  The move appears to be a desperate attempt by Eskom executives to avoid being held accountable and criminally liable for paying McKinsey and Gupta-linked Trillian R1.6bn without a valid contract. McKinsey has written to the cash-strapped Eskom five times since October to initiate legal proceedings to set aside its contract so that it can return the fees after it was served with a letter of demand from law firm Bowmans in October‚ but has received no response. McKinsey told Parliament it would reimburse Eskom regardless of the outcome of legal process. The letter of demand‚ served on Trillian and McKinsey by Eskom’s head of legal Suzanne Daniels‚ said the contract was unlawful as it had not been approved by the Treasury. She was suspended two days later. Now Eskom says the payment and the contract are above board — but it still wants the money back. Business Day has seen e-mails outlining Eskom’s new position written earlier in January by then acting CEO Sean Maritz to McKinsey. Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/energy/2018-01-25-eskom-makes-a-u-turn-on-r1bn-payment-to-mckinsey/ McKinsey & Company statement on Eskom October 17‚ 2017 Over the past four months our Global General Counsel‚ Jean Molino‚ conducted a thorough investigation into the claims of wrongdoing levelled against McKinsey & Company regarding our work at Eskom since 2015 that involved Regiments Capital and Trillian. She was assisted… October 17, 2017 By: Stephan Hofstatter And Sikonathi Mantshantsha Eskom has demanded that Gupta-linked Trillian and global consultancy McKinsey pay back the R1.6bn they received from an unlawful consultancy contract by Tuesday and warned of possible charges. The charges "against implicated parties" may include theft‚ fraud and corruption. "To ensure that the money… October 9, 2017 US global consultancy firm McKinsey said on Tuesday "we made several errors of judgement and process" as it announced that it would suspend work for state-owned companies (SOCs) in South Africa until further notice. Eskom paid McKinsey and the Gupta linked Trillian for six months of work up to early… October 17, 2017