There was drama at the ANC provincial headquarters yesterday when 50 taxi bosses occupied Calata House and demanded to be paid for ferrying ANC members and supporters to the ANC’s 106th celebration. The taximen, mostly heads of taxi associations, invaded the offices and took control of operations. They locked the front door and some lay on the floor. For five hours, the angry taxi bosses prevented ANC staff from doing their work. The Dispatch saw a staff member being told to go and sit down when she tried to get copies of her work from the printer. After talks, the taximen gave the ANC until tomorrow to settle an outstanding R8-million debt. They gave this warning to the party’s provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane, treasurer Babalo Madikizela and Eastern Cape ANC Women’s League leader and provincial transport MEC Weziwe Tikana. Yesterday, the three ANC leaders formed a crisis committee after rushing to the ANC headquarters at Calata House in King William’s Town to diffuse the chaos. The three ANC heavyweights managed to break the siege by lunchtime after two hours of negotiations with a 20-strong squad of riot police officers on standby. Madikizela said the party was struggling to pay the debt and would welcome donations from the public. He said the party found itself deep in debt after an unexpected number of supporters showed up at the rally. He said the party only budgeted for R10-million to ferry 55000 supporters but costs climbed to R18-million when 85000 people had to be transported. The OR Tambo region, which has the biggest ANC support in the province, was responsible for an outstanding debt of R4-million after 18945 people showed up, 8945 more than the 10000 expected to be ferried on a fixed budget of R3.3-million. He said this meant transport costs jumped to R7-million from the R3.3-million. Dr WB Rubusana Region expected 25000 people but 30222 supporters pitched, exceeding the budget by R2.6-million. Madikizela, with office manager Mongezi Dyala nearby, said: “I’m sure you saw for yourself that people love the ANC and they wanted to be part of its celebrations; the beaches were full, streets and even the stadium could not take everyone.” Ginsberg Taxi Association chairman Khaya Mpheqeka said he feared for his life. Some of his members had accused him of getting the money and embezzling it. “We give them until Friday [tomorrow] to cough up the money or else we will launch full-blown action and shut down the ANC offices. “We can’t operate like this. Every time we do work for the ANC, we have to come here and shout at them. This is not right.” The taxi bosses from Amathole district municipality, Sarah Baartman municipality and Buffalo City Metro are owed more than R1-million, which is the outstanding balance after 1366 of their taxis ferried more than 20000 ANC supporters to the celebration. Madikizela said: “The payments would be effected as soon as our national leaders are back from Davos. You must also remember the celebrations were a national programme. All payments should be made by January 31.” —malibongwed@dispatch.co.za More than 50 Eastern Cape taxi owners today stormed the ANC's provincial headquarters in King William's Town demanding outstanding payments. The irate taxi bosses claimed the ruling party failed to cough up after they ferried its supporters during its 106th birthday celebrations. The event was held at Buffalo City Stadium… January 24, 2018 Hundreds of disgruntled ANC members protested yesterday outside the party’s Eastern Cape headquarters, demanding the upcoming Buffalo City regional conference be shelved. Party bosses locked the gates to Calata House in King William’s Town after more than 10 taxis ferrying about 400 protesters carrying placards were offloaded just after 11am… November 5, 2015 The process of realigning the boundaries of Buffalo City Metro (BCM) wards is one of the reasons some disgruntled ANC members want the party’s regional conference shelved. The members are calling on BCM to finalise the process of realigning ward boundaries after the inclusion of neighbouring municipalities and villages into… November 6, 2015