ST CHRISTOPHER’S private school, founded in King William’s Town in 1986, opened a new campus at Kidd’s Beach last Wednesday. It is headed by new school principal Craig Daniels, whose previous post for four years was deputy principal of Kuswag Primary in East London. The new campus caters for 150 pupils from Grade R to Grade 9. Per-month fees this year are: The building of the new campus started at the beginning of August and although builders struggled to finish in bad weather, they managed to complete a few blocks in time for the start of school this year. The new school has two Grade 8 classes with 28 pupils per class, and one class for each ascending grade. Smaller classes allowed for more individual tuition, said Daniels. Still under construction are a media centre, computer lab, auditorium and more classrooms. Daniels said the expected completion date for all these buildings was the end of March. Apart from the campus having beautiful sea views, Daniels said they also decided to build the new campus at Kidd’s Beach because of new developments in the area, such as the Umlele Heights complex. There are also more new areas which have been rezoned for housing developments. Daniels said the Kidd’s Beach community had been without a high school for many years. They were considering opening a third campus in Port Elizabeth in the next few years. “There is a great demand for high schools in the area as there have only been primary schools. St Christopher’s School is really for the community. “There is also a lot of development in the area,” he said. The school runs completely on solar power. Daniels said despite overcast weather over the past couple of days, they had not experienced any difficulties. The school has a water harvesting system but is also connected to the municipal water supply. The school offers the mainstream sports of soccer, rugby, tennis, netball, hockey, and also music, chess and debating. It is looking at extending its extra-mural activities to offer scuba diving, rock climbing, canoeing and mountain biking. The principal said the school still had space in all grades for pupils. From a single farmhouse, a handful of log cabin classrooms and 53 children, Merrifield Prep and College has grown to 602 pupils and has embarked on a five-year expansion ahead of its 20th anniversary next year. The academic phase of the development is already in use and consists of a… February 27, 2016 One of East London’s oldest heritage schools, St John’s Road Primary, will soon be able to house more pupils, thanks to the school’s newly built early childhood centre. The new centre has four new classrooms and a play area with swings and a jungle gym. It is set to accommodate… June 21, 2017 “Grand plan fails to lift pass rate” screamed a headline on the front page of the Daily Dispatch on January 7, just a day after Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced that the Eastern Cape had plummeted from a 65.4% matric pass rate in 2014 to 56.8% in 2015, making… January 23, 2016