The seconding of Sarah Baartman District municipal manager Ted Pillay to the beleaguered and broke Makana Municipality may still be on the cards, but the ball is now firmly in the court of that municipality as well as that of cooperative governance MEC Fikile Xasa. This is according to Makana Municipal spokeswoman Yoliswa Ramokolo. The Concerned Citizens Committee to Save Makana (CCCSM) – which consists of several civil society, business and other organisations – last week accused Makana mayor Nomhle Gaga of misleading citizens and Xasa in her letter to Xasa in November. In that letter, in which Gaga seeks to dodge the MEC’s threat to place the municipality under administration, she said it had been agreed that the respected Pillay would be seconded to Makana for three months with the blessing of Sarah Baartman District Municipality (SBDM). But CCCSM said no such plan seemed to be under way. Some two months later little had been done to ensure his secondment. CCCSM’s Ron Weissenberg suggested that not even Pillay appeared to know anything about it. But Ramokolo said Gaga’s letter had been to inform Xasa of the meeting between the troikas (mayor, speaker and chief whip) of the two municipalities and the subsequent Makana council’s resolution that Pillay be seconded to Makana. SBDM had agreed that it would continue to foot the bill for his salary and Makana for accommodation. Ramokolo said the MEC had subsequently written to Gaga seeking clarity on certain unnamed issues. “We are now waiting for the resolutions of the district municipality and then the concurrence of the MEC.” Weissenberg this week pointed out that some two months after Gaga’s letter Makana was still without Pillay or any other turnaround strategist. He said Pillay had indicated in December that he had all his travel and only heard rumours of the plan but had not been formally approached. He said that if Pillay had been seconded Makana should have taken immediate and practical action to ensure it happened quickly. “Instead, it is being treated much like every other issue we have pushed for – delays, obfuscation and no communication.” The municipality entered 2018 some R180-million in debt, and with crumbling infrastructure. Even Makana municipality’s website is offline.