KwaZulu-Natal police on Wednesday bust a massive international syndicate allegedly operating a hydroponic dagga laboratory in Hibberdene‚ on the south coast. The joint operation – which included members of The Hawks‚ National Intelligence Unit and home affairs – descended on five properties‚ including farms and townhouses‚ and made multiple arrests. KZN Hawks spokesman Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said that the team‚ acting on information‚ clamped down on the clandestine operation – said to be worth hundreds of thousands of rands. They found dagga‚ cultivating equipment and specialised laboratories. He said some of those arrested were foreign nationals‚ and that the illegal drugs were believed to have been transported out of KZN to other provinces as well as internationally. “There were five different properties involved‚ including farms. At these properties – which couldn’t be policed – the syndicate was operating in very secure premises. No one would have suspected their activities.” Mhlongo said this was a “huge bust” because of the reach of the syndicate in supplying the drugs.      Ten people were arrested this morning after they were found with heroin to the street value of more than seven million rand‚ police say. The joint operation by Durban Hawks and National Intervention Unit members made the bust at a house in Ramsgate‚ near Margate. The arrested suspects aged between… May 6, 2015 A massive Hawks and Crime Intelligence drug fighting operation turned the lives of suspected drug dealing “kingpins” upside down yesterday when they were arrested and about R5-million in cash confiscated, along with a huge amount of drugs. The raid, which took about six months to plan and execute and started… July 9, 2015 More than 20 suspected drug dealers were arrested and hundreds of thousands of rands worth of drugs confiscated in a series of widespread police raids at the weekend. The operations started on Friday and were expected to continue until today. By late yesterday police reports indicated that more than 20… January 25, 2016