By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI and BONGANI FUZILE There can only be one Hawk in the nest, but in the Eastern Cape there are two and now the claws are out. The Dispatch has confirmed that Eastern Cape provincial head of the Hawks Major-General Nyameko Nogwanya’s suspension had been lifted in November – yet he is still sitting at home doing nothing but drawing his R1.8-million per annum salary. There is already another Hawks officer in his seat. National head of the Hawks’ anti-corruption unit Major-General Zinhle Mnonophi has been acting head of the Hawks in the Eastern Cape in Nogwanya’s place already for three months. Popcru is deeply involved in the row, arguing vociferously for its member, Nogwanya, to get his post back. The Dispatch has reliably learnt from high-placed sources within the elite crime-fighting unit that Nogwanya had been told by national bosses in Pretoria not to report for duty. It is not clear when the 50-year-old will be back at his Oxford Street, East London, offices. Nogwanya was suspended on August 11 by national Hawks head Lieu allegations that he had sexually harassed his 37-year-old spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni. The move caused an outcry with Popcru calling it a waste of taxpayers’ money. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch on Thursday, Eastern Cape Popcru chairman and Mthatha Hawks investigative unit commander Colonel Loyiso Mdingi said the union was appalled. “We will write to the minister of police about this because it is not just a waste of money but is also a personal attack on our member, Nogwanya. “General Matakata failed to explain to us as to why a person, whose suspension had been lifted, is barred from his office.” Matakata declined to comment. Hawks national spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said: “I wish I could comment or help you share that information. “However, it the organisation’s policy not to discuss any internal matters in the public domain, whether it is of public interest or not.” Asked to respond on the statements made by Popcru, Mulaudzi said: “Eastern Cape Popcru has the right to voice their concern. However, they are more than aware that there are structures they can utilise to engage us on any matter rather than to use the media to speak on their behalf.” Popcru has bemoaned what it claims is the “sneaky” appointment of Mnonophi to the post. The union also called the move a waste of resources, saying the national anti-corruption unit was too important for its boss, Mnonophi, to stay in East London. Mdingi fumed: “There is something very fishy about this appointment because there are lots of officials like Brigadier Go-Paul Govender [Nogwanya’s deputy] and others in the Eastern Cape office who could also do a good acting job.” Mdingi alleges that Mnonophi was appointed by people who wanted her to do their “dirty jobs”. Mulaudzi said: “These are internal matters and we are not obliged to discuss operational matters in public.” The Dispatch tried to speak to the new acting provincial head through Mulaudzi but failed. Mulaudzi said: “The acting provincial head has requested to be excused from any exposure. Let us respect her wishes.” lSee also page 4