By LISEKHO MADIKANE and ZISANDA NKONKOBE A man will appear in the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court today on a charge of murder after he was arrested last week in connection with the death of former junior Springbok rugby player Mlungisi Bali. Bali died last week after spending days fighting for his life in ICU. He was stabbed in the chest at a traditional homecoming ceremony in Mdantsane NU3 on December 28. It was initially thought Bali had fallen onto a glass after being pushed but doctors now say he was stabbed, his brother Mihlali told the Daily Dispatch last week. Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said: “Police have gathered information and arrested a 32-year-old male following the death of rugby player Mlungisi Bali at NU3 Mdantsane, East London. The suspect will appear before the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court [today], facing a charge of murder.” Bali’s former team, the Vodacom Blue Bulls, took to Facebook last week and offered their condolences to his family. “He was selected to play in the junior World Championships in Argentina, alongside the likes of Elton Jantjies, Patrick Lambie and his dear friend CJ Stander,” the team said. “We have lost not only a superb athlete but an exceptional human being and a role model to many young South Africans.” Bali, who at the time of his death was playing for Mdantsane’s Swallows, will be laid to rest at his Sheshegu village in Alice on Saturday. lCentane police arrested a 26-year-old man for the alleged rape of a 15-year-old girl following a traditional ceremony at Gqunqe village on Friday. The suspect is due to appear before the Centane Magistrate’s Court today. lPolice have appealed for help in tracing Thabisa Shirley Stokwe, 35, of Zwelitsha, who went missing last Monday. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said the woman was last seen by her husband at a Zwelitsha hotel, where the couple had been staying at the time. Mbi said the husband had left her alone in the hotel watching TV. She has not been seen since. Anyone with information can contact the investigating officer or Zwelitsha detectives on 0836949893 or 08600-10111. — zisandan@dispatch.co.za/ lisekhom@dispatch.co.za A five-year-old Mdantsane boy whose body was slammed on to a tarred road by a suspected mentally ill man last Wednesday is still in coma fighting for his life. Families in the NU3 community where the attack happened have been left reeling with shock. Traumatised children are refusing to leave… January 4, 2017 A young Mdantsane woman died at the weekend trying to stop a fight between a couple from NU1. Inga Jilaji, 23, a mother of  a two-year-old  girl, was stabbed by a  man who  allegedly beat up his girlfriend at a popular hangout. Eye witnesses said Jilaji had intervened to try… October 14, 2014 A 38-year-old man allegedly stabbed his mother to death at a home in NU 3‚ Mdantsane, around 10am today. According to police‚ the 61-year-old woman had allegedly tried to intervene in a fight between her son and their domestic worker. She was‚ however‚ stabbed multiple times and declared dead on… April 17, 2015