But this is not happening with some indifferent dog owners. There have been complaints by Nahoon residents who are fed up with dogs running loose on Nahoon Beach, and relieving themselves on the sand and in the car park. This is despite the signs put up by the municipality stating clearly that no dogs are allowed on that side of the beach. Close to the life savers’ shack is a blue municipal sign written in medium size letters: “No dogs”, but the sign can easily be missed by people who are parked facing the beach. When the Dispatch arrived at the Nahoon beach around 2pm this week there was a man, who did want to give his name, who was walking two of his dogs off their leashes. “Oh! I did not know dogs were not allowed here. How come I missed it when I used that entrance,” he asked, before putting his dogs on the lead. An owner of three dogs, Mark Ristow, 43, said he was on the beach every morning to watch his children surf, and his dogs ran loose regularly. He once counted 13 dogs on the beach. “There are dogs all over the beach, and they poo there. Some owners just push it under the sand. Sometimes the dog owners just leave it there and walk on. What happens when we are at the beach and the dogs bite a child? I own dogs but they don’t walk around the beach where they are not allowed on this side,’’ he said. An e-mail complaining about the issue that was sent to the municipality on January 23 had not yet received a response. Three friends relaxing at the beach said unleashed dogs could be annoying and it made them feel uncomfortable. Mandisa Nxele, from Beacon Bay, who jogs around the Bonza Bay beach in the mornings, said: “The same thing happens at Bonza. I was once chased by a dog. “I don’t bring my dog to the beach because I don’t want other people to be uncomfortable, because I know that it is not only about me but other people at the beach as well,” she said. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond, confirmed that dogs were not supposed to be in or near the bathing area. “Going to the beach should not cause discomfort to members of the public. “The municipal by-law states that dogs are not allowed, and owners who do not abide by the rule will pay a fine of R300 issued by the law enforcement. Owners should clean up after their dogs and should be liable for any attack or biting of a member of the public by their dog. We urge people to report those breaking the law by contacting our law enforcement unit on (043)722-1819,” she said.