Many rural communities and schools rely on voluntary efforts to improve their lives – and, over the past few days, a number of entrepreneurs have partnered with the state to do just that. On Friday four social entrepreneurs collaborated in donating a mobile science lab to learners at Fort Malan High school in Willowvale. LM Holdings (LMH), a 100% black female-owned company; enke: Make Your Mark, a leadership development organisation; Kusile Labs and Technology, a company that promotes science and maths training in rural communities; and Technovera, a company that distributes chronic care medication to patients living in remote areas, all got together to provide access to a science education. Speaking on behalf of all four enterprises, Luleka Mbete of LMH said the science lab was an information communication technologies (ICT)-based interactive platform that would help learners at the school access education support. “The underprivileged learners of Fort Malan will finally be able to conduct science experiments to better understand the field of science and improve their results. “This is just one of our ways of ploughing back into the community,” said Mbete. Grade 11 science pupil Zenixole Machana said their understanding of the subject would improve a lot because it was “difficult to grasp some concepts if you only have theoretical knowledge”. “We cannot wait for the live demonstrations,” he added. Meanwhile Mpumalanga-based attorney Lwazi Guzana returned to his roots and donated 65 uniforms to his former primary school, Ndakeni Junior Secondary, in Ntabankulu. “Having grown up in this community under the same conditions, and studied at Ndakeni myself, I know the pain and shame that comes with not having school shoes or a jersey or a shirt. “It eats away at your confidence and I just wanted to make sure that at least these kids get a chance to enjoy school and learn without the burden of having to worry about appearances,” said Guzana, adding that it felt good to brighten up a child’s day with a simple gesture. Principal Ndumiso Ngewu said people who give back to their communities were proof that “ubuntu” was still alive. Yesterday Tourism Minister Thoko Xasa spent the day at Gxulu Junior Secondary School where she donated school uniforms. — ziphon@dispatch.co.za Pupils from a rural school in Lower Gqumashe location in Alice have been boosted following the donation of a fully-equipped science lab. Now they will no longer just read or look at images of science experiments in their textbooks, but will now have a chance to do the actual experiments.… November 8, 2017 Pupils from a rural Eastern Cape school will now have access to science laboratory kits – thanks to a donation from a foundation that hopes to uplift the community.   Mxhume Junior Secondary School in Lambasi village in Lusikisiki has been chosen as the lucky recipients of this year’s donation… January 4, 2018 ADVANCED satellite technology is helping poor rural schoolchildren on the Wild Coast to mouse-click their way to a better future. From humble beginnings at one Dwesa school seven years ago, the acclaimed Rhodes University Siyakhula Living Lab project has fast become a “broadband island” of hope that now has thousands… April 25, 2013