Ahead of the highly-anticipated South African premiere of The Wound (Inxeba)‚ TshisaLIVE hosted a special pre-screening of the film which attracted a star-studded audience The screening took place at Killarney CineCentre on Wednesday night and was attended by some of Mzansi’s famous faces including‚ Kelly Khumalo‚ Zahara‚ Wendy and Bernard Parker‚ Zodwa Wabantu‚ Skolopad‚ Thuso Mbedu‚ Makgotso M‚ Candice Modiselle‚ Refilwe Modiselle and Bontle Modiselle. Producer Elias Ribeiro and one of the lead actors‚ Niza Jay‚ who plays the character of Kwanda in the film was also at the screening and encouraged people to support it. “It is important for our communities to watch this film and I really believe a lot will change in the industry. When you create something you are passionate about people will always talk‚” said Niza. The pair along with film writers Malusi Bengu and Thando Mgqolozana also tackled a few questions from the audience. The Wound‚ which scooped 19 awards across the globe‚ has attracted both acclaim and criticism from viewers after the movie’s “provocative” trailer was released early last year. It was criticised by traditional leaders and social media users for its portrayal of the Xhosa initiation ceremony. “85% of people who have attended pre-screenings of the film gave it the thumbs up and think it should’ve been nominated for an Oscar‚” said Elias. The Wound opens at local cinemas on Friday‚ February 2. Here’s a glimpse into what went down:  Zodwa is here and she can't wait to watch the film. "It's important to embrace our sexuality and be proud of who we are" #InxebaTheWound pic.twitter.com/sOX9P3LGuR — TshisaLIVE (@TshisaLIVE) January 31, 2018  https://twitter.com/TshisaLIVE/status/958767701761110016/photo/1?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.timeslive.co.za%2Ftshisa-live%2Ftshisa-live%2F2018-02-01-snaps-tshisalives-pre-screening-of-the-wound-inxeba-was-lit%2F Source: TMG Digital.  SA film The Wound (Inxeba) is one of the most talked about homegrown films Mzansi and while it has attracted both criticism and acclaim‚ actor Niza jay has urged people to flock to cinemas to watch it. Speaking to TshisaLIVE just minutes after it was announced that Inxeba did not… January 29, 2018 Producers of controversial local film The Wound (Inxeba) have responded to threats which led to several screenings of the movie being cancelled‚ by laying a complaint with the South African Human Rights Commission and the Commission for Gender Equality. The film‚ which tells the story of a gay factory worker… February 5, 2018 The controversial Xhosa initiation film Inxeba (The Wound) hits cinemas nationwide next week on Friday and East London movie fanatics will get an opportunity to see the film at Hemingways Movies. The film has sparked a lot of controversy, especially from the Eastern Cape traditional communities. AmaXhosa King Mpendulo Zwelonke… January 24, 2018