Soccer fans made a racket outside a council meeting yesterday demanding that Buffalo City Metro council reverse its decision of no longer hosting Chippa United on grounds of high fees. Chippa are demanding R1.3-million per game which is R300000 more per game compared to the two previous financial years. The 200-strong crowd were protesting the termination of a three-year hosting agreement. Despite banners, posters, marching in sodden rain and dancing on the steps of City Hall, a city council meeting went on inside. Mayor Xola Pakati said he would take the memo to council speaker Alfred Mtsi. Fans, some from KwaZakhele and New Brighton in Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, arrived with the argument that BCM had missed the 2010 Soccer World Cup extravaganza by not pitching to build an international standard stadium and other job-creating infrastructure. “We missed out on the 2010 Soccer World Cup; there is no way we are going to allow this again,” chanted some fans. Draped in Chippa United colours, the spirited supporters hoisted placards, one of which read: “We have waited for 15 years for top flight football. Why?” At 1pm ANC Youth League provincial task team member and Ward 3 ANC branch secretary Ntembeko “Sticks” Dodo handed Pakati a four-page memorandum. Soon after, Pakati told journalists: “After the council reviewed the new contract proposed by Chippa of R1.3-million per game, they felt that the deal would be unsustainable.” When pressed about the R43-million direct and indirect economic spin-off from five games revealed in an economic impact assessment released by his office last year, Pakati agreed that they were “tremendous” but did not comment further. Asked whether he regretted council’s decision to drop the deal Pakati said: “I cannot speak against the council.” The rejected deal was for six matches. It included a once-off marketing consideration of R500000 to Chippa United for brand alignment and promotion of the partnership. East London Chippa branch executive member Sisanda Martin said: “We dumped our own PSL teams and started Chippa United supporters’ clubs across the province, spent lots of money by purchasing jerseys. And after we were promoted to the PSL, now we get this.” National African Football Supporters’ Association secretary general Siyabulela Makunga said: “This time around we won’t allow BCM council to mislead community because of undevelopmental [sic] individuals’ selfish interest.” So how much do other municipalities across the country pay soccer teams to play their games? The Dispatch checked with Ethekwini, City of Cape Town and Johannesburg and found that: lClubs pay Ethekwini Municipality to use the city’s stadiums for their games; l Clubs pay the City of Johannesburg. Profits from fees paid by teams using World Cup stadiums are shared by Stadium Management South Africa (SMSA) 63% to 37% for Johannesburg City. lCity of Cape Town funded Ajax Cape Town for R3-million per season and let them use Cape Town Stadium and Athlone Stadium for 39 matches watched by 190080 spectators. — Additional reporting Mamela Gowa Chippa United boss Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi has assured East London soccer-lovers that  the Chilli Boys will still use  the Sisa Dukashe Stadium as their second home. He also confirmed that the Telkom Knockout match against Mamelodi Sundowns on Sunday will be played at Sisa Dukashe. This follows the shocking announcement… October 26, 2017 By ROSS ROCHE Premier soccer action is set to return to East London after it was confirmed that Chippa United will be playing matches in the city once again. Although the Buffalo City Stadium did not appear on the fixture list for the new season released yesterday, Chippa chief operating… August 2, 2016 Nelson Mandela Bay acting city manager Johann Mettler has given the go-ahead for the metro to obtain a court interdict against Premier Soccer League (PSL) outfit Chippa United to stop it from playing matches in Buffalo City Metro. According to the Bay metro, the Chilli Boys’s last two PSL games… February 10, 2016