Parliament announced a formal inquiry on Wednesday into state capture involving Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane‚ who is closely linked with the Gupta family.  The decision followed Zwane’s failure to appear before the mineral resources portfolio committee to answer questions related to state capture. It was the fourth time the minister had failed to appear before the committee since November last year. He may now be formally subpoenaed to appear before the committee’s oversight inquiry‚ which can make formal recommendations regarding alleged wrongdoing. Speaking to TimesLive‚ committee chairman Sahlulele Luzipo confirmed the committee’s decision. “Yes‚ we will go for a formal inquiry‚” he said‚ adding that details would be confirmed at a follow-up meeting next week. EFF committee member Thembinkosi Rawula accused Zwane of lying to the committee to avoid facing tough questions. “He is holding the committee in contempt. Now we are taking a decision that all the questions we might have we are going to exhaust in an inquiry‚” Rawula said. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane has been reported to Parliament’s Ethics Committee and the Public Protector for allegedly “deliberately misleading” Parliament. Zwane recently stated‚ in a written Parliamentary reply‚ that his December 2015 trip to Dubai was organised and paid for by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR). Democratic Alliance… June 28, 2017 Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane has come out guns blazing against parliament's probe into his alleged role in state capture. A defiant and visibly irate Zwane on Wednesday morning appeared before the mineral resources portfolio committee‚ where he accused MPs of attempting to assassinate his character in a public forum… October 18, 2017 Parliament's mineral resources committee has not enthusiastically embraced the prospect of an inquiry into state capture and has been accused by the Democratic Alliance of engaging in delaying tactics. The committee on Wednesday considered a letter from the National Assembly's chair of committee chairpersons‚ Cedric Frolick‚ that it investigate state… August 16, 2017