Buffalo City Metro needs more than R7.5-billion to fix its ailing road infrastructure. In a report presented by councillor Ncedo Kumbaca to the mayoral committee at the East London City Hall on Friday, he revealed that only 39% of BCM’s road and storm water infrastructure is in an acceptable condition, meaning 61% needs to be repaired. The report is yet to receive council’s approval as councillors have not yet been furnished with it. In his report, Kumbaca said 41% of BCM’s of roads are in a “poor” or “very poor” state. Kumbaca wrote about the metro’s road network: “[It is] old, rapidly deteriorating and has passed its design life.” Of the total amount needed to get BCM roads in order, R6.5-billion will go to resurfacing the metro’s 1600km tarred roads, 20% of which are in a “very poor” state. R1.2-billion will be used to maintain gravel roads stretching 1300km in length, 23% of which are in a “very poor” state while 34% are in a good state. Kumbaca said it was for this reason that the metro would this year be “intensifying efforts” to turn the city into a “construction site” with various road projects set to be concluded as others get off the ground. Kumbaca revealed that between now and June the metro would spend about R320-million on various road projects in the city, townships and rural areas. The roads update included a progress report on “capital projects” like the R50-million Fleet Street upgrade and the R7-million Oxford Street resurfacing project which was completed last month. “We cannot afford to exclude people in rural areas, who are also voters and deserving of proper roads and other quality services.” Kumbaca added that the metro was “comfortable” with the pace at which its road projects were going “but we believe we can do more if resources can permit”. Among BCM “capital projects” is the Quenera Road linking Beacon Bay and Gonubie, estimated at R70-million and set to be completed by March next year. But this year will be dominated by an upgrade in Mdantsane’s cluster 1, which includes NU1 to NU5 for a R136-million project set completion by July. Also set down for this year is the rehabilitation of BCM bridges and stormwater drains on the North East Expressway and Woolwash Road and in Gonubie and Duncan Village at a cost of R8-million between next month and September. To fix the remaining 70 bridges and culverts, R1-billion will be needed. But according to Kumbaca’s report, what appears urgent and disastrous in the city is the stormwater network, less than half (46%) of which is said to be in a “good” state. In BCM’s total stormwater pipe network estimated at 550km in length, the report reveals that there are 20300 manholes, kerb inlets and headwalls. “This year we are intensifying the work of turning our city in into a construction site and there are many other multimillion-rand projects we will announce in July,” said Kumbaca. — zingisam@dispatch.co.za