Renowed South African playwright, lyricist, composer, director and theatre producer Mbongeni Ngema is making his way to the Steve Biko Centre in Ginsberg, King William’s Town on Friday for a special screening of his latest film, Asinamali.  The Steve Biko Foundation’s Thando Sipuye said the public would also get an opportunity to engage with Ngema on the day. “We will start off with a dialogue where he will be talking about the film and the public will also get to ask him questions about his career and the latest production, Asinamali,” Sipuye said. “We will explore Ngema’s life-long career in the creative arts, including music and theatre performance, as well as take a look at his latest production and future prospects.” The film is based on Ngema’s play of the same name, Asinamali, which is a powerful musical set in the confines of a South African prison. This is Ngema’s third film, following Sarafina! and the documentary, Voices of Sarafina. Sipuye said the film featured an original soundtrack by Ngema, which draws deeply on his Zulu heritage, his expertise in a cappella arrangement for theatre, and five decades of composing across eclectic musical styles. Asinamali is produced by the same creative partnership of Ngema and Darrell Roodt that brought the globally successful film, Sarafina! The film follows the story of Comrade Washington, played by Ngema, a black struggle activist who returns to South Africa. His mission is to work with convicts to create a musical play. The interwoven stories emerge all the way from the Lamontville rent strikes of 1983. Through personal testimony, song and dance, the prisoners find resilience, liberation and forgiveness, with the forces of resistance being represented by a singer-activist named Soweto (Danica de la Rey). They face the cruel wrath of the prison authorities as the play comes together, culminating in a performance for a stunned audience of their oppressors. The event starts at 5pm on Friday at the Steve Biko Centre in Ginsberg. To book, e-mail Vuyo Mntonintshi at events@sbf.org.za or call (043)605-6700. — poliswap@dispatch.co.za