A neighbour of the Gupta family who was privy to the stream of politically connected VIPs – including cabinet ministers‚ government officials and heads of state owned enterprises – visiting the Saxonwold compound in recent years‚ is ecstatic at witnessing the Hawks raid on the home on Wednesday.  “To see the Hawks here is really encouraging. This is showing the electorate that there is a positive change coming‚” said a resident of the wealthy Johannesburg suburb‚ Richard Bottger. He told TimesLIVE he has been living in the area for 12 years. “The proliferation of the Gupta compound has had residents up in in arms. In recent years they have blocked out the gates‚ but before you could see government officials coming in.” “This is fantastic‚ it feels like real change is happening in South Africa and its positive for all of us. These guys were merely here to rape South Africa. This shows real progress. Things are really happening‚” Bottger said. The Hawks raid on the expansive Gupta family compound began at 6.30am with officers sealing off the mansion and blocking the road outside with their vehicles. Hawks sources said the raid was part of a larger search and seizure operation being conducted on the family’s properties‚ with more raids to come. Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela highlighted visits of key government figures to the Saxonwold home during her investigation into allegations of state capture‚ even using cellphone records to place people on the scene. TimesLIVE As the Hawks raided the Gupta residence in Saxonwold on Wednesday morning‚ some have questioned the timing of the operation. The Hawks said three people were arrested after an early morning raid linked to its state capture investigation‚ centred around the Gupta business family‚ who are associates of President Jacob… February 14, 2018 By Graeme Hosken And Qaanitah Hunter The embattled Gupta family is hoping to strike a deal with the Hawks this morning. This follows the Hawks raid on the Gupta family’s Saxonwold compound in Johannesburg early on Wednesday morning. News of the planned deals‚ which will see their lawyers meeting with… February 14, 2018 The embattled Gupta family is hoping to strike a deal with the Hawks this morning. This follows the Hawks raid on the Gupta family’s Saxonwold compound in Johannesburg early on Wednesday morning. News of the planned deals‚ which will see their lawyers meeting with the Hawks today‚ follows reports that… February 14, 2018