The National Tertiary Education Union (NTEU) handed over a memorandum of grievances to the University of Fort Hare management at the Alice campus today.  Union branch chairman Xolani Tom said the union wanted insourcing of services such as cleaning, security, gardening and catering. He said the union also wanted 12% salary increase and a 5% notch increase between notches. He said employees should not be forced to take the pension fund that forces them to contribute 25% while demanding a R1 500 monthly housing allowance.  “We demand that the university opens up more medical aid options to choose from. The restraint… imposes unfair and unjust limitations to those members of our staff who might get better medical aid options that are financially viable,” he said. NTEU also decried its difficulty to operate as a result of the management allegedly refusing to recognise the union despite an award from the commission for conciliation, mediation and arbitration for recognition. The union represents workers from across the university. By SINO MAJANGAZA, ZOLILE MENZELWA and SIMTHANDILE FORD University  of Fort Hare students in East London yesterday intensified their fight for accommodation when they shut down the campus. They have also threatened to stage sit-ins from today to put pressure on management to resolve the accommodation impasse with speed. Meanwhile,… February 14, 2018 Academic programme has been disrupted at the University of Fort Hare's East London campus this morning. Students are now gathered in front of the campus where they are expected to deliver a memorandum to the university management. In a mass meeting that was held at the institution's campus yesterday, students… March 8, 2017 Students at the University of Fort Hare have boycotted classes to demand that newly appointed vice-chancellor Professor Sakhela Buhlungu resolve some outstanding issues. They want him to resolve issues initially raised with former VC Dr Mvuyo Tom. East London campus SRC premier Sonwabiso Mamkeli said the students were fed up… March 9, 2017