By ZINE GEORGE and SIMTHANDILE FORD President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered his inaugural speech last night, where he announced tangible plans to create jobs for the youth, deal with corruption and stabilise our state owned institutions – including finding a new head for the National Prosecuting Authority. Ramaphosa vowed to deal with corruption – declaring that Amasela aba imali ka Rhulumente mawabanjwe (‘Thieves who steal taxpayers’ money must be locked up’). In a speech where he invoked the memory of the late Nelson Mandela, Ramaphosa said to honour Madiba, who would have turned 100 this year, his government would be one which espoused “ethical behaviour and ethical leadership”. He referred to the current period as a “new dawn” which presented the country with an opportunity to rebuild. He referred to youth unemployment as the country’s biggest challenge. “This year, we will be initiating measures to set the country on a new path of growth, employment and transformation,” said Ramaphosa. Tough decisions, he said, have to be made to “close our fiscal gap, stabilise our debt and restore our state-owned enterprises to health”. “At the centre of our national agenda in 2018 is the creation of jobs, especially for the youth. “One of the initiatives will be to convene a Jobs Summit within the next few months to align the efforts of every sector and every stakeholder behind the imperative of job creation,” he said. To make this possible, he said he would organise an Investment Conference within the next three months, which would target both domestic and international investors, “to market the compelling investment opportunities to be found in our country”. Next month, a Youth Employment Service initiative – which will place unemployed youth in paid internships in companies – will be launched. He said: “I will therefore be establishing a Youth Working Group that is representative of all young South Africans to ensure that our policies and programmes advance their interests.” Turning to the fight against corruption, Ra-maphosa said 2018 would be a year where “we will turn the tide of corruption in our public institutions”. The commission of inquiry into state capture – headed by the Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo – will start its work “shortly”. “The Commission is critical to ensuring that the extent and nature of state capture is established, that confidence in public institutions is restored and that those responsible for any wrongdoing are identified. “We must fight corruption, fraud and collusion in the private sector with the same purpose and intensity,” said the president to applause. To fight corruption effectively, said Rama-phosa, law enforcement institutions would be strengthened to “shield” them from external interference or manipulation. “We will urgently attend to the leadership issues at the National Prosecuting Authority to ensure that this critical institution is stabilised and able to perform its mandate unhindered,” he said – giving the clearest indication that the days of national director of public prosecutions Adv Shaun Abrahams are numbered. The government will also accelerate the land redistribution programme “not only to redress a grave historical injustice, but also to bring more producers into the agricultural sector and to make more land available for cultivation”. Ramaphosa arrived to a rousing welcome as MPs and guests clapped and cheered as he entered the National Assembly chamber. Delivering his inaugural state of the nation
address, Ramaphosa started by thanking his predecessor Jacob Zuma amid murmurs from inside the chamber. Former President Zuma snubbed Rama-phosa’s first state of the nation address. Zuma’s absence at the Sona was conspicuous, despite him being invited to attend like all other former presidents of the country. Zuma was not the only former president who did not attend, as Kgalema Motlanthe was not seen inside the public gallery. But Thabo Mbeki and FW de Klerk honoured the invitation. There were loud cheers when Rama-phosa announced the presence of former president Mbeki and De Klerk. Anglican church Archbishop Thabo Makgoba was also among the eminent persons attending the Sona. Also present were former National Assembly speakers Frene Ginwala and Max Sisulu.