University of Fort Hare students who have not been allocated accommodation had until 5pm to vacate the rooms they are squatting in. This comes after a notice was given to nursing students who were temporarily staying at Elwandle residence to move to their Glen Eaglen residence. The announcement means hundreds of the students temporarily accommodated at Glen Eaglen in the Quigney will have to make way for the nursing students. “The matron says if we do not vacate, extra security officers will be deployed to force us out of the Elwandle residence by 5pm today,” said one of the student leaders Dibakazi Mampete. She appealed to the university management to allow students without accommodation to squat. SRC residence officer told DispatchLive this afternoon that he and other student leaders were on their way Glen Eaglen residence to try to resolve the problem. “We really to not have a plan at the moment. We do not know where those students are going to sleep tonight,” he said. University spokesman Khotso Moabi has in the past told DispatchLive that they were still in a process of procuring accommodation for the NSFAS qualifying students. The academic year only started on Monday after students boycotted lectures in an attempt to force the management to provide accommodation for all students who need it. University of Fort Hare students have vowed that they will not vacate the residences tomorrow as the vice-chancellor instructed them to do so in a letter he sent them this afternoon. Mvuyo Tom announced this afternoon that both East London and Fort Hare campuses were shut down with immediate effect.… September 28, 2016 Student leaders at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology have warned that if any student is removed from its residences, they would approach the courts for an interdict. “Nobody will be kicked out,” said #FeesMustFall’s Lubabalo Kasana. “About 40% of students are still in the residences. If any attempt is… November 19, 2015 Defiant Fort Hare University students returned to their residences on Friday night, just a day after they were evicted by the sheriff of court. This comes as the students continue to challenge the eviction. They demand that the university provide alternative accommodation for all the students. Alice campus SRC president… October 8, 2016