The Sarah Baartman District Municipality is attempting to bail out troubled Makana Municipality by loaning it their municipal manager Ted Pillay for three months. The secondment of Pillay to Makana in an attempt to turn around the failing municipality has been on the cards for some months now. Makana this week confirmed Pillay had started his three-month stint at his new office in Grahamstown on Thursday. Pillay has his work cut out. He arrives at a time where the municipality has been without a municipal manager for years. It owes over R150-million to creditors and the wholesale collapse of infrastructure has become increasingly visible in the form of shockingly potholed roads, burst water pipes, sewage flowing through the veld and suburban streets and the proliferation of informal dumping sites, which have become a common eyesore throughout the city. Pillay’s secondment follows Makana council’s rejection of a turnaround specialist offered by the cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) department. The municipality this week said in a press statement that the turnaround specialist came with an exorbitant price tag which the municipality could not afford. The district authority will foot the bill for all Pillay’s expenses, said Makana spokeswoman Yoliswa Ramakolo. Pillay will be expected to assist the institution with the long-awaited permanent appointment of a municipal manager, improvement of its revenue collection, assessing its debt, improving staff morale, reducing excessive overtime, improving service delivery and lobbying for funding. Makana was also again issued with a qualified audit opinion with the auditor-general citing non-compliance on a huge range of issues – from record management to procurement of goods and services. Pillay will also be tasked to ensure the municipality stays on course with its payment plans to Eskom, and to bulk water suppliers Amatola Water and the Department of Water and Sanitation. DA caucus leader Mlindi Nhanha has welcomed the appointment of Pillay but warned that three months may not be adequate to address the municipality’s many failings. In the meantime, a local civil society group calling itself Makana Revive has decided that citizens must seek their own solutions. The organisation seeks donations from citizens and is currently using a Jet-Patcher machine to begin filling the potholes for which the city has become notorious.