Premier Phumulo Masualle has yet to receive a directive that he won’t deliver the state of the province address tomorrow, his office announced yesterday. His spokesman Sonwabo Mbananga said Masualle’s prepared speech “will be good to go to the printers in the next few hours”. Mbananga was responding to the Daily Dispatch’s questions on developments earlier this week, which suggested that Masualle might be recalled before delivering his Sopa on Friday. “Anything that may occur between now and then really ought to be communicated by the ANC as it is the party that won the election in 2014,” said Mbananga. This follows a meeting of ANC provincial officials on Monday, at which the decision to reshuffle Masualle’s cabinet was discussed. This would have been subject to a report which would have been tabled at a special meeting scheduled for yesterday. But this was not to be as the party announced that this special meeting had also been shelved indefinitely. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi said they had no option but to shelve yesterday’s meeting because “many members of the PEC have submitted apologies due to state of the nation address [last Friday] and the budget [today]”. Mbananga said: “In the absence of any communication from the deploying party, which won the elections in 2014 and therefore deployed Premier Masualle, and in the absence of any changes to that mandate I would therefore say yes, premier Masualle will deliver the address on Friday.” The uncertainty over whether Masualle would deliver the speech comes amidst pressure from ANC alliance partners such as Cosatu in the province to recall Masualle. The federation convened a secretariat of all its affiliates a week ago, and resolved to support an earlier ANC PEC decision to
reconfigure the cabinet. The party is citing souring relations between the party’s headquarters in Calata and the office of the premier. Mbananga said the premier would not be drawn into commenting on the views of Cosatu and “others who have been commenting on possible change in the leadership of the executive arm of government”. “The premier as a disciplined member of the ANC knows very well that it is the ANC that deploys its deployees anywhere. “We do not want to contribute to that discussion as government but refer those matters to the ANC. That is where those matters ought to be managed,” added Mbananga. “On Friday at 10am premier Masualle is expected to table the Sopa which would be followed by multi-sectoral engagement on Monday.” — zineg@dispatch.co.za