A 29-year-old woman was arrested in Mthatha this afternoon for being in possession of suspected stolen medicine. Department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said, the schedule 3 drugs were packed in unmarked bags and being sold to unsuspecting members of the public. “She was arrested by KSD municipal police,” he said. Kupelo said, a manager for pharmaceutical services at the Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital was assigned to identify the medicines. “At this stage, it is not clear whether the drugs belong to the state or not as they have not been marked,” he said. He said one container found suggested, that some of the drugs may have expired in 2017. “The suspect will appear at Mthatha Magistrate’s Court tomorrow,” he said. Kupelo said the department was urging members of the public not to buy medicines from the streets, they should rather go to nearest clinics or hospitals. “These drugs pose a very high health risk not only because they  are prescribed by unqualified people but also because they are exposed to high temperatures above the required temperature  in terms of the act,” he said.  Probe finds they bought from corrupt officials. AN INVESTIGATION into medicine thefts from state depots and hospitals in the Eastern Cape has implicated more than 30 doctors, a hospital CEO and provincial health officials. The doctors, whose names, addresses and practice numbers are listed in a report from the department… October 22, 2013 An East London health official has been arrested and accused of stealing confidential patient documents, allegedly to help lawyers seeking to sue the department. The woman, 58, who works in the outpatients department at the newly completed Cecilia Makiwane Hospital (CMH), was caught by security guards at the gate with… September 14, 2017 By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI and ZIPO-ZENKOSI NCOKAZI A rescue mission in Port St Johns for two people who are feared to have drowned at Second Beach had to be abandoned due to bad weather yesterday. Provincial health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said they had received reports yesterday afternoon that three people… December 18, 2017