Komani-born Yugen Blakrok is one of four South African artists featured on the soundtrack of the much-anticipated movie Black Panther. Other artists featured are Babes Wodumo‚ Sjava and Saudi. Black Panther is a Marvel superhero movie and has been dubbed as one of the most anticipated movies of 2018. The Black Panther album is due to be released today, while the movie makes its big screen debut next week Friday. Speaking with the Daily Dispatch, Yugen Blakrok said when she recorded the verse for the Opps track, she had no idea what she was working on. “While I was on my last tour in Europe, I was approached to be a part of a project which I knew nothing about. “So I wrote and recorded my verse. “It was only when I came back home to South Africa that I heard what the work had been for. My verse would be featured on the Black Panther soundtrack,” she said. On the Opps track, Yugen Blakrok is featured with US rapper Vince Staples. Yugen Blakrok said being featured on the Black Panther soundtrack proved that she did not have to do things like other artists. “It means that we don’t always have to follow anyone else’s footsteps or formula to get to our own dreams,” she said. The Johannesburg-based rapper said she has been doing music full-time for over a decade now. She may be an unknown artist to many South Africans but the rapper has made a name for herself, not only as an underground artist but internationally as well. She recently finished her third European tour and has worked with several artists across Europe and America‚ including Poetic Death. She has one album out, titled Return of the Astro-Goth, which was released in 2013. “I also have numerous features and collaborations from over the years.” Her much-anticipated next offering is on track for its 2018 release. “I will be releasing my album later this year through Iapetus Records [SA] and Strange Famous Digital [US],” she said, adding that she would be doing more tours and collaborations this year. “The year has already started on a busy note.” South African musicians are not the only ones flying the national flag high. Actors Dr John Kani, his son Atandwa and Connie Chiume star in the movie. Dr Kani plays the character of King T’Chaka, while Atandwa plays the younger version of him and Chuene plays a mining tribe elder. East London moviegoers will have a chance to see the movie next Friday at Hemingways. — poliswap@dispatch.co.za