Missing owner of popular East London guest house Thornycroft Lodge Elsa Remant-Eyland has been found dead. The decomposed body of the 67-year-old woman was recovered by police yesterday morning in the bushes outside her Horseshoe Valley guest house in Summerpride. Neighbouring guest house owner Jacques Jordaan of Santa Paloma Lodge said the woman had lived alone in the big house. Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said the deceased was reported missing to the police by her estranged husband on Monday. She had been gone since Friday. “The exact circumstances surrounding the incident are not yet known,” Mzuku said. “Police are investigating a case of murder.” Family spokesman Dale Onion declined to comment about the incident, adding that the family was still grieving and might release a statement today. “You must understand that this is a very difficult time for everyone in the family and other family members including her children, who are flying in from overseas. We don’t want to talk about this for now.” Onion asked the media to give the family space to mourn in private before dropping the call. Although the police only launched a search after a case of missing person was reported on Monday, Remant-Eyland’s family and friends began searching for her on Friday through social media. Her daughter Aafke Remant posted three photos of Remant-Eyland and wrote: “I love you mommy please come home.” The post was shared 1300 times on Facebook by Monday. Her death has sent shockwaves across her East London community. Jordaan said: “We are shocked by this incident but since we live in South Africa, we expect this to happen. But the police must do their investigation because we don’t know where the attack comes from. We can’t conclude.” Jordaan, who said residents in the valley feel they are under siege, added his CCTV cameras caught a man “snooping” around his farm at 2am on Wednesday. “I just checked the store house and I have discovered that four aluminium sheets have gone missing. “We are living each day with the mentality that any moment might be our last here. That we could be next.” Jordaan said he would not want the dozens of schoolchildren who visit his establishment for popular outdoor activities to feel unsafe. The police said anyone with information that may assist in the arrest of the suspect in the murder case should contact Sergeant Anele Lamati on (043)709-7500 or 071-475-2112. — alibongwed@dispatch.co.za Owner of popular East London guesthouse Thornycroft Lodge, Elsa Remant-Eyland, has been found dead. The decomposed body of the 67-year-old was found by the police in the morning in the bushes outside her Horseshoe Valley home in Summerpride where she lived alone. The gruesome discovery ended a five-day search for Reymant-Eyland who was… February 20, 2018 Mdantsane police have opened an inquest docket after the body of toddler was found floating in a dam in Eluxolweni township in Newlands on Sunday. Three-year-old Oyema Mbube went missing on Saturday afternoon while playing with his friends. Yesterday, his mother, Palesa Mbube, told Daily Dispatch she could not believe… January 5, 2016 A 10-year-old Mdantsanse girl has disappeared after a family’s late-night birthday celebrations. Siphosihle Xawuka, a Grade 6 pupil at Phumelani Higher Primary in NU8 in Mdantsane, was last seen in her home wearing a red sleeveless night dress, with a white printed dog on the front. The young girl was… April 7, 2015