Despite owning 11 fast food outlets in four towns in the Eastern Cape, together employing more than 350 people, Sicelo Mntonga still regards himself as an emerging entrepreneur. Among his string of franchise stores is a Debonairs Pizza outlet in the recently opened Dutywa Mall. The Mthatha businessman, now 42, was recently given a R2-million loan by the Eastern Cape Development Cooperation (ECDC). The outlet, which opened its doors in December 2016, employs 21 people. Mntonga says he has a long-standing relationship with the ECDC, which has invested over R12-million in his ventures over the years. His first Debonairs was in Sutherland Street, Mthatha City Centre Building, and he was only 30 years old when he opened it in 2004. “The ECDC made it possible for me to realise my dream and to apply my passion for entrepreneurship. “When I started I only had the vision. I but had no resources and the ECDC effectively came to the rescue. “The ECDC opened doors for me, provided the needed funds and I benefited from lucrative opportunities presented by the Debonairs Pizza franchise,” said Mntonga. He boasts a resumé as a restaurateur spanning 13 years which has seen him operating stores in Dutywa, Mthatha and Butterworth while a fourth store is in Kokstad, KwaZulu-Natal. His franchises include Debonairs Pizza, Wimpy, Steers and Mugg & Bean – all under Famous Brands. Of the eight Debonairs Pizza takeaways, five are in Mthatha, one in Dutywa, one in Butterworth and the other in Kokstad. The three Wimpy stores are in Mthatha and so is the Mugg & Bean diner. He has only one Steers outlet and it is in Butterworth. “’My passion is to work with people, to develop people, afford entrepreneurship opportunities to our people and improve their lives. “This was my passion from the beginning and I am happy that many people are benefiting,”’ said the Ntabankulu-born businessman. Mntonga had assisted many with entrepreneurship by offering them partnerships in his business ventures without upfront capital. “’Most of our people could make good entrepreneurs or business people, but funding is a barrier in their lives,” he said. ECDC head of development finance and business support Tandeka Rozani said the corporation’s support for Mntonga’s ventures is in line with its commitment to extending its reach to deserving entrepreneurs in all corners of the province. “This is particularly true for those entrepreneurs based in under-served and largely rural areas. ECDC’s loan instruments are targeted to reach entrepreneurs in areas such as where Mntonga’s businesses are located. Loan funding helps businesses in these areas to grow, stimulates local economic activity and facilitating job creation,” said Rozani. She said ECDC was pleased with the contribution it has made to helping Mntonga realise his dreams. “’He has demonstrated the skills, acumen and temperament of the type of entrepreneur the ECDC intends to cultivate throughout the Eastern Cape,” said Rozani. On developing other people, he said: “My passion is to afford ordinary people entrepreneurship opportunities, assist in job creation and reduce unemployment. “’Through our assistance some have managed to further their studies and they have ended up with tertiary qualifications, either in the hospitality industry or other fields. That makes us happy.” Mntonga and Onke Mankahla, a partner in three Debonairs franchises in Mthatha, were among the budding youth entrepreneurs funded by ECDC in 2009-2010. Since the duo’s investment in the stores, turnover has doubled, with the Mthatha Plaza branch voted the chain’s top outlet in the Eastern Cape and second nationally in 2010. Before venturing into business, Mntonga was as an accountant in a well-known auditing firm, and that experience has helped him in running his business empire. “In my case, families of 350 of my staff are now benefiting and this goes a long way in addressing poverty and unemployment and also assists in personal and skills development of many people,” he said. He believes there is buying power in Mthatha and some of the former Transkei towns where he is operating, and says there are business opportunities that can be explored. —- lulamilef@dispatch.co.za