By Rob Knowles And Mauneen Charter‚ Talk Of The Town The Fish River Resort will soon reopen after the Eastern Cape-based Mantis Collection secured a one-year caretaker contract to operate the former hotel and casino complex from the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform. Fish River Sun‚ then owned by Sun International‚ opened in March 1989 but took strain after its gambling licence was transferred to Boardwalk Sun in Port Elizabeth. Ongoing land claims made by three Xhosa groups‚ the AmaZizi‚ Tharfield and Prudhoe groups‚ saw the hotel’s closure last November. Mantis Collection director Carl Haller received the keys to the establishment at an informal handover held at the Fish River Resort on Friday. Sun International’s Mike van Vuuren‚ general manager of the Sun Boardwalk and former Fish River Sun GM‚ handed over the keys to Zama Memela‚ chief director of the commission in the Eastern Cape for the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform who‚ in turn‚ handed them over to Haller. “This is a one-year caretaker contract‚” Haller explained. “We would ultimately like to take a marketing and managing contract for a longer period but‚ at this time‚ we need to secure the property and slowly bring back some of the popular facilities available in the past.” Stenden South Africa‚ an international branch campus of NHL Stenden University of Applied Sciences based in the Netherlands‚ is also on board to provide staff training. The Mantis Collection‚ led by Adrian Gardiner‚ also chairman of the board at Stenden South Africa‚ has marketing and management contracts with several hotels both locally and overseas. Haller highlighted the group’s commitment to the development of local communities and conservation‚ saying this was very important to the Mantis Collection and Gardiner’s vision for the resort. Gardiner is known for creating the Shamwari game reserve near Port Elizabeth. Once the land claim issue is resolved and ownership of the land is finalised‚ Haller said he wanted the hotel to benefit the affected local communities. – For the full story see https://www.talkofthetown.co.za/2018/02/05/breaking-fish-river-resort-re-open/ Other related links
https://www.timeslive.co.za/sunday-times/lifestyle/travel/2017-09-20-sun-international-to-close-its-fish-river-sun-resort/ and https://www.timeslive.co.za/news/south-africa/2017-09-20-here-are-the-communities-who-hope-to-secure-the-fish-river-sun/ By: Odette Parfitt And Staff Reporter One community has been fighting for nearly two decades to lay claim to the land on which the Fish River Sun was built but multiple groups have joined the legal action‚ hoping to benefit from a redistribution of the property. The resort is expected… September 20, 2017 Financial advice to avoid haemorrhaging R34-million a year in a tourism deal was ignored by Land Minister Gugile Nkwinti, whose department went ahead and bought the Fish River resort for R75-million. Saturday Dispatch can reveal that: lThe Fish River Sun seaside resort with its hotel, apartments and golf course was… December 2, 2017 Top-class karate action is on the cards from today as the second annual United World Karate South Africa (UWKSA) national championships takes place at the Fish River Sun Hotel and Country Club Resort over the next two days. The championship will see over 250 competitors of all ages and levels… March 31, 2017