Kidnapped grandmother Denise Bartlett, 71, has been found alive, but hungry.  After a five-day search, Komani police found the Sterkstroom granny locked up in a house “near Sterkstroom” yesterday. Her alleged kidnappers did not get the R3-million they demanded. Two suspects were arrested, said police. Bartlett was abducted by two armed thugs from her family home on Monday night. Police spokeswoman Captain Namhla Mdleleni said Bartlett was found locked in a house near Sterkstroom yesterday. “She has been locked up in the house since Tuesday after the kidnapping,” she said. Police were still at the scene late yesterday afternoon. Bartlett’s daughter, DA councillor Lindy Haggard, said she received a call on her business landline on Thursday morning from a person who said: “Thetha no mamakho” (Talk to your mother), but she could not hear them well. “I connected two phones and worked with the investigating officer. When they called the second time, they demanded a ransom of R3-million. I laughed at them and told them I don’t have the money,” she said. “They contacted me five more times and the police managed to trace the call to the cellphone of one of the suspects. We managed to arrange for the money to be dropped off yesterday. I woke up yesterday morning and went to the bank with someone following me. While I sat at the bank, I received a call from the investigating officer saying that they have found my mother.” She said she went to fetch her mother and then took her to a family doctor. “She told me that since Tuesday she only ate six slices of bread. “She is a strong woman and did not even tremble or cry,” said Haggard. Haggard said Bartlett was well and was in a place of safety with her. “I am happy that she is back and I would like to thank all those who have prayed for her and supported us through this difficult time,” she said. Mdleleni congratulated the team which worked hard to trace Bartlett. “The two suspects who are charged with kidnapping and house robbery, will appear in the Sterkstroom Magistrate’s Court on Monday,” she said. People have been showing their support for the Bartlett family on social media. Bartlett was kidnapped after she was robbed at her house.