An auction of one of the two houses belonging to the late ANC Youth League leader Sive Nombembe, a businessman at the centre of Mnquma Municipality’s R10-million black refuse bags scandal, was yesterday halted at the 11th-hour after his widow approached the court on grounds that her husband had bought the house for her. This is despite the house being registered under Nombembe’s name. This was confirmed yesterday by Kenneth O’Connor of O’Connor Auctioneers and Appraisers, an East London company contracted to oversee the auction of such properties. Nombembe’s second house – a seven-bedroom house with two lounges, a kitchen and backyard flats – was sold for R1.3-million during a highly contested auction in Extension 6, in Butterworth yesterday. O’Connor told the Daily Dispatch that the sale of the house could not go ahead because of the notice of motion apparently filed in court by Nombembe’s wife. She could not be reached at the time of writing yesterday. O’Connor refused to give more details on the matter and instead referred questions to the estate curator Mike Timkoe, who also refused to comment, and referred questions the National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDDP). Justice spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga also could not be reached late yesterday. Nombembe’s two houses in the affluent Extension 6 suburb in Butterworth, worth a combined R1.6-million, were both set to go under the hammer yesterday after they were attached during the NDDP investigation into the Mnquma scandal. Nombembe bought the auctioned house in 2016 for just over R640000, O’Connor said. Dutywa lawyer Mkhululi Siyo outbid about 50 others for the house. The initial bidding price was R800000, and when no one raised their hands, O’Connor had to drop it to R500000. It was a mere nine minutes later when the house finally sold for R1.3-million as many people seemed interested in getting it. Siyo told the Dispatch he was excited to acquire the property, saying he would use it as his family home. He said he had been unaware of its previous owner. “I have heard about him but I have never even seen his face, so basically I don’t know who it belonged to,” he said. O’Connor said he was surprised the house attracted such a price tag. “We did not expect it to go that far as we now sold it more than double its price,” he said. Furniture inside the house will be collected by the auctioneers and will also be placed under the hammer when some of Nombembe’s assets are sold in a future auction. Earlier yesterday, also in Butterworth, trailers, trucks and a bakkie belonging to Nombembe, were auctioned off. Nombembe, who died last September in a car crash, was facing fraud and corruption charges relating to the multimillion-rand black refuse bags tender issued out by Mnquma in 2015. — asandan@dispatch.co.za An auction sale of one of the two houses belonging to the late ANC Youth League leader Sive Nombembe, a businessman at the centre of Mnquma Municipality's R10-million black refuse bags scandal, was today halted at an 11th-hour after his widow approached court to halt such sale, apparently telling the court… February 15, 2018 Assets belonging to late ANC Youth League provincial leader, businessman and Mnquma Municipality's R10-million black plastic bag scandal accused, Sive Nombembe, are set to go under the hammer on Thursday. Nombembe’s assets, which includes two houses, will be auctioned in Butterworth in an effort to recoup some of the taxpayers’… February 14, 2018 The NPA's Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) and the Assets Forfeiture Investigation (AFI) of the Hawks will today attach ANC Amathole regional secretary Teris Ntutu's properties and that of the deceased Butterworth businessman Sive Nombembe. This in an effort to recoup some of the taxpayers' monies lost in the alleged Mnquma… October 12, 2017