Two thousand Eastern Cape pupils from 25 schools, mostly from previously disadvantaged backgrounds, will soon benefit from a R11-million project to teach them maths and science. The pupils have been enrolled in a joint initiative between the Technology Research Activity Centre of South Africa (Trac) and the department of education, which has been funded by Eskom. The project was piloted in the Kouga municipal region, where results of pupils from five schools improved in 2016. The programme showed remarkable results within the first year of inception. Lungiso High School in Humansdorp achieved a 62% physical science pass rate in 2016 from 25% the previous year. Humansdorp High School improved its physical science pass rate from 50% in 2015 to 62% in 2016. The programme will benefit more than 2000 pupils between Grade 10 and Grade 12. The schools that will benefit from the programme are: lVulindlela Senior Secondary School, Port St Johns SSS, Gcinumthetho SSS, Ngubezulu SSS and Mthweni SSS in Nyandeni and PSJ local municipalities; lNcuncuzo SSS, Cofimvaba SSS, Daliwonga High, Khwaza SSS and Arthur Mfebe SSS, St Cuthberts SSS, Qumbu Village SSS, Little Flower SSS, Jongilizwe SSS and Somagunya SSS in Qumbu and Cofimvaba; lHlumani High, Kwenxura SSS, Bongolethu SSS, Mzwini SSS and Jongilanga SSS in East London; and lPhaphama SSS, Gamble Street High, Uitenhage High, VM Kwinana SSS and Solomon Mahlangu SSS in Uitenhage. The Education department’s deputy superintendent-general Ray Tywakadi lauded the far-reaching benefits the partnership would bring to schools. “The programme offered by Trac is a good fit with the department’s own intervention in some of those schools that require added push from their perennial underperformance,” he said. Eskom acting group executive, Kobus Steyn, said the private-public partnership demonstrated a shared social responsibility in line with government’s skill development initiative in creating access to quality education for all, and driving the long term goal of poverty eradication. “One of the country’s many challenges remains the importance of popularising mathematics, physical science and related fields among learners. “Trac has this potential, as it fuels enthusiasm in our children through exciting and engaging methods in teaching and learning. “In addition we need to remove barriers, perceived and real in learning and teaching these subjects by arming teachers with the appropriate skills,” he said. Steyn said with the programme they hoped to increase the pool of excellent teachers who would motivate pupils and remove the fear that is associated with teaching and learning these subjects. Eskom acting general manager Loyiso Tyabashe said: “The Eastern Cape is known to be the home of legends, but this often refers to politicians, who have made their mark in the political landscape. We also have exceptional scientists and mathematicians who hail from the province.” Tyabashe was referring to Mthatha-born rocket scientist Siyabulela Nxuza, who discovered a planet that was later named after him. Nxuza is one of the beneficiaries of the programme. Trac national executive director Debbey Olivier said the programme had improved pass rates at several schools and allowed for many students to enrol at university. Eskom signed the first agreement with Trac SA in March 2016. Olivier said although the programme started in America and only came to South Africa in 1994, it had a national footprint of 21 centres in six provinces. “Over the past two years there has been a drastic increase in the number of pupils that go to university. From only 9% qualifying for university entry, this year more than 50% of our learners will be going to university,” she said. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za