ANC national chair Gwede Mantashe lamented that the problems plaguing the Mnquma municipality were selfcreated by political instability and councillors failing to do their jobs. He warned that until these things changed, the troubled municipality would deteriorate further, residents would continue to suffer poor service delivery and businesses would not invest in Butterworth and Centane. Mantashe also took a swipe at both party and government officials who pulled a no-show at the ANC gathering he was addressing on Tuesday.  He scolded both Mnquma municipality and Amathole District Municipality councillors for not attending the event as hosts. The no-show of alliance partners at the same gathering was also a worrying factor and a “sign of a sick ANC in this area”, he added. Service delivery had taken a back seat to party factional battles, and this was the root cause of the instability and failure to deliver services, he said. Residents and businesses in the area currently suffer water cuts at certain times almost every day. Mantashe said the municipality would never address these problems as long as it was unstable and councillors were so obviously far less concerned about the people they were meant to serve than themselves and their allies. Investment would never thrive in such a place, said Mantashe, as no sane person would spend their money there. “Investment follows stability because investors will never invest their money where there is always fire, and that is a discussion we must have about lack of stability in this municipality,” said Mantashe. The councillors should never forget that they were employed by the electorate, he warned. “When they fight among themselves as if there is no tomorrow they are doing so at the detriment of service delivery to the people and no investment will come to this municipality. “This municipality must be stable and be able to deal with issues soberminded. We need to start fixing it there, otherwise the issues of water and electricity are signs of a sick municipality. “Councillors are deployed to serve the people, not themselves, and they are supposed to report back to their constituency every month about progress,” he said.