The Hawks on Wednesday morning raided the Gupta compound in Saxonwold as part of its investigation into state capture.  They have blocked off the road in the elite Johannesburg suburb‚ eyewitnesses report. A TimesLIVE journalist has confirmed this and a team is on their way there. Hawks spokesman Hangwani Mulaudzi said the raids were part of the larger state capture investigation. “We are not playing around. We take this investigation very seriously‚” Mulaudzi said. “We will be releasing a statement soon about these and other raids that we are conducting.” Hawks sources say the raids are part of a large multi-agency law enforcement operation. “Officers are going to out to secure certain items‚ documents‚ electronics. Anything that is seen as evidence for this investigation will be seized‚” a source said. TimesLIVE understands that the operation is also targeting Midrand‚ where the Guptas’ Sahara Computers is situated. The family has offices elsewhere in the country too.  This is a developing story‚ more to follow. -TimesLIVE As the Hawks raided the Gupta residence in Saxonwold on Wednesday morning‚ some have questioned the timing of the operation. The Hawks said three people were arrested after an early morning raid linked to its state capture investigation‚ centred around the Gupta business family‚ who are associates of President Jacob… February 14, 2018 A neighbour of the Gupta family who was privy to the stream of politically connected VIPs - including cabinet ministers‚ government officials and heads of state owned enterprises - visiting the Saxonwold compound in recent years‚ is ecstatic at witnessing the Hawks raid on the home on Wednesday. "To see… February 14, 2018 The embattled Gupta family is hoping to strike a deal with the Hawks this morning. This follows the Hawks raid on the Gupta family’s Saxonwold compound in Johannesburg early on Wednesday morning. News of the planned deals‚ which will see their lawyers meeting with the Hawks today‚ follows reports that… February 14, 2018