While ANC leaders are discussing the future of President Jacob Zuma, one of his wives, Thobeka Zuma, insinuated that the president would not go down without a fight. She posted the messages on her official instagram account with a happy picture of herself and the president earlier today. My everyday crush, Nxamalala Msholozi Maphumephethe Inkunzi Emidwayidwa Zinyane likaMnyakanya. Kuthiwa ungalwi nomuntu engalwi nawe #southafrica #biggerthanmattersofthestomach A post shared by  TMZF Founder & Patron (@tobeka_madiba_zuma_is_her_name) on Feb 9, 2018 at 2:41am PST The post, which starts off with the hashtag #MyEverydayCrush, is followed by Zuma’s clan names later reads in part that Kusezoshuba ungalwi nomuntu engalwi nawe, which loosely translates to “it’s about to get ugly, don’t fight someone who is not fighting with you”. She later comments on the status that “Umsholozi did not join the ANC in 1991, jumped ship nor hip-hopped between the struggle and wealth accumulation. He left his home at a tender age to fight apartheid. He was prepared to pay the ultimate price. He will finish what he started because he does not take orders beyond the Atlantic Ocean”, in what could be interpreted as a jibe at ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa.  Meanwhile, the ANC issued a statement cancelling the build-up programmes towards the #Mandela100Rally which was scheduled in Cape Town for Sunday. National spokesman Pule Mabe said the national officials of the ANC will no longer participate in the build-up programmes. “This is because of various other commitments they are required to attend to.” Mabe said: “The mobilisation programme will, however, proceed with a number of NEC members deployed in and around Cape Town today. The rally on Sunday, February 11 2018 will also proceed as planned and shall be addressed by the President of the ANC, Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa. The ANC regrets inconvenience caused.”
Mabe said that the withdrawal of the ANC’s top six from the events leading up to the Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations had nothing to do with Zuma’s fast-tracking talks.