Nakhane Touré broke his silence on the ruling from the Film and Publication’s Appeal Tribunal that Inxeba (The Wound) be reclassified from 16 LS to X18 – a rating that is usually given to hardcore porn and can only be shown at designated adult premises’. The ruling came after complaints from The Men and Boy foundation and the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa). The tribunal panel‚ which is assigned by the minister of communications‚ ruled that the rating originally given by the Film and Publications Board should be changed. Nakhane said he would only comment today but late on Wednesday night released an emotional statement‚ detailing how he has been treated. “We are vile. We are perverse. A virus that they will do anything to get rid of. I sat in my apartment ready the verdict‚ close to tears‚ shaking. I saw myself as a child‚ mocked for being effeminate. Afraid for my life as a teenager as I walked past straight men as I had no idea what they were capable of. I always had something to hide. They hated me.” Despite the hurt‚ he said he refused to be shamed. “I’m allowed to be emotional. This is my life. These are our lives. And I fucking refuse to live in shame for your patriarchy to keep living. I’m an umXhosa and I don’t know what to do with what I love‚ but doesn’t love me.” Producers of the film have said they are studying the decision and awaiting feedback from their legal team. You can read Nakhane’s full response here. I said I’d sit until tomorrow to share my feelings about the Inxeba X18 rating, but Fuck that. I’m raw now A post shared by  NAKHANE. (@nakhaneofficial) on Feb 14, 2018 at 10:22am PST Actor and singer Nakhane Touré plays one of the lead roles in Inxeba (The Wound) and said the movie has "become a weird myth" in his life. He was speaking to Indie Mag and described how he never thought it would be shortlisted for the Oscars. "I never considered it… February 13, 2018 The creators of controversial local film The Wound (Inxeba) have hit back at a number of death threats sent to cast and crew of the project‚ including threats to burn lead actor Nakhane Touré alive. In a statement released on Monday‚ the film's producers said they were concerned by the… August 21, 2017 SAMA-award winning singer and movie star Nakhane Toure has never been shy to show off his body in his artistic music videos and once again had fans blushing with a steamy video for his latest single‚ Clairvoyant. https://twitter.com/chedaar/status/910534620797702145 In the video Nakhane can be seen caressing and kissing a man… September 22, 2017