Each year the Daily Dispatch, in partnership with Johnson & Johnson, run its Local Heroes campaign, which recognises individuals and groups from many different sectors of the community. By submitting the name of your hero, the project in which they are involved stands the chance of being acknowledged on a larger platform. Local Heroes is an age restriction free campaign that has been running successfully since 2015. And anyone who touches on areas of society to make a difference – be it to the environment, the elderly, children or animals, working over long hours without looking to be compensated for their work – can be recognised. The purpose of this campaign is to share good news and the amazing work that has been done by ordinary people in our communities. Nominated local heroes are profiled in the newspaper and the top 12 are honoured at the end of the year at an awards ceremony. With a consumer purpose of caring for people around the world by anticipating their need and giving people experiences that change their lives, Johnson & Johnson has been an ideal partner in the Local Heroes campaign. Company spokeswoman Michelle Pretorius said: “Being a part of the Local Heroes initiative has been an incredible experience for us as it has helped us put our consumer purpose into action by demonstrating these things in our community. “Our focus for the 2018 campaign will be on youth and businesses. This year we hope to see businesses of East London stepping forward.” Dispatch marketing manager Penelope Smith encouraged more businesses to join in the campaign. “Last year businesses were a big driving force in the campaign, and this year we want to encourage more to join us in making an impact. We would also like the community to nominate those businesses that they see are doing good community work,” she said. If you know of anyone that goes the extra mile to make a difference in a community you can nominate them by sending their name and contact number as well as your details to localheroes@dispatch.co.za.