For three years, the Peppy Thomas Foundation has been putting smiles on faces of children from underprivileged backgrounds in Mdantsane by giving them toys and stationery every Christmas Day.  Founded by three Mdantsane locals – Thandulwazi Thomas, 40, Lubabalo Makhapela, 40, and Sikhulule Matiti, 35, – the foundation ensures that more than 100 children from poor backgrounds have a merry Christmas by giving them gifts and also meals on the day. The children are from Ward 23, which comprises NU14, NU16 and NU18. And once the festive season is over, the three men help to ensure that children from previously disadvantaged backgrounds start school on a positive note. They also have back-to-school campaigns, where they donate school shoes to pupils from William Mtyeku, Sandisiwe High, Loyiso High, Solomon Mahlangu High, Vulamazibuko High, Qhasana High, Mzomhle High and Sonwabo Primary schools. The foundation, which was named after Thandulwazi’s uncle Khayalethu ‘Peppy’ Thomas, last week handed over shoes to the schools at the library at NU14. “We want to focus on schools because that is the one place where the future of the child is and it is where everything begins,” said Matiti. “When children do not have stationery or school shoes, that is when their performance is affected as well as their confidence. “We do not only focus on the classrooms but on sports as well, because not all of the kids are strong academically. Therefore those that are talented sportswise also get a chance to embrace their strengths. “We have started in our ward because that is where we picked up the problem. We have started small but we plan to be known and assist throughout the Eastern Cape.” Vulamazibuko High School principal Mzolisi Rebe, who was also present at Friday’s event, heaped praise on the foundation. “What is done by the Peppy Thomas Foundation might look as a minor gesture, but it is a big thing on the hearts of many children. “You need to work hard in your studies to achieve your dreams. You are your own liberators,” he told the pupils. The foundation also has a sports project where they organise a sports tournament, called “Dlala Nathi” [translated ‘play with us’] in schools, where the pupils are given an opportunity to participate in soccer, netball and a debating competition. Like any other non-profit organisation, the Peppy Thomas Foundation also faces financial challenges. “We depend on our own funding and friends of the foundation, which are mostly private individuals. This is not a very sustainable model. “We believe the only way to improve the conditions of our people is to hold hands with all social partners. We can do so much more together,” Thomas said. Rural community school in Potsdam, Qasana High took the top honours in the Peppy Thomas Foundation (PTF) sport tournament, while Ngcelwane High proved to be better than Mzomhle High at shooting hoops. The PTF, together with the Railway Safety Regulator (RSR) and Buffalo City Metro Municipality, hosted the schools tournament… August 28, 2017 In an effort to curb the high number of drownings while also teaching a lifelong skill, good Samaritan Yona Balindlela is teaching Mdantsane pupils how to swim. Operating from five inflatable 8x4 metre pools donated by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Imvula Foundation for the same purpose a few years ago, Balindlela… December 9, 2017 Two years ago five friends from Mdantsane got together and decided to change the lives of underprivileged girls from their area. The women, who all grew up in the area, began with an assessment of what empowerment tools girls needed in order to make a success of their futures. Education… March 5, 2015