A fifth suspect in the brutal slaying of five Ngcobo police officers and an off-duty soldier appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. Initially 10 suspects had been arrested in connection with the incident following a gunbattle with the police  which left seven suspects dead after a raid at the controversial Angels Ministry Church run by the seven Mancoba brothers in Nyanga village outside the town. Hawks Eastern Cape spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni confirmed that 46-year-old Phumzile Mhlatywa appeared in court on Tuesday on similar charges as four other suspects who appeared in court earlier this week. His case was also postponed to March 8 for  a formal bail hearing. Meanwhile a 31-year-old suspect believed to be one of the church leaders, was arrested on Tuesday night after he was allegedly found in possession of an unlicensed firearm. “The weapon, a pistol is one of the firearms that were stolen when the five police officers were killed at the Ngcobo police station,” she said adding that the suspect would appear in court on Thursday. “He has been charged with unlawful possession of a firearm,” added the spokeswoman. However she would not confirm if the suspect was one of the Mancoba brothers or not. The Daily Dispatch reported last week that about 10 firearms, among them six pistols, two assault rifles and two shotguns, had been stolen when unknown gunmen stormed the Ngcobo police station. Five police members and an off-duty soldier were killed during the attack. New Police Minister Bheki Cele, addressing a memorial service in Ngcobo on Tuesday, promised that police members would be empowered with the necessary “tools of the trade” to enable them to defend themselves from violent criminals. A fifth suspect in the slaughter of five Ngcobo policemen and an off-duty soldier appeared in court on Tuesday while a sixth suspect has also been arrested and is due to appear in court today. Both Hawks Eastern Cape spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni and National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesman Luxolo… March 1, 2018 One of the controversial leaders of the Angels Ministry Church in Nyanga village, 31-year-old Phuthumile Mancoba briefly appeared in the Ngcobo Magistrate's Court around lunchtime today on murder, robbery, attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm charges. Mancoba is the sixth suspect arrested in connected with the murder of… March 1, 2018 By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI AND LULAMILE FENI Two men believed to be leaders of the Seven Angels Ministries Church which is at the centre of the death of 13 people this past week, have handed themselves over to the Ngcobo police where one of them was arrested on the spot.   Eastern… February 26, 2018