Residents are living in fear in villages surrounding the Fish River in Peddie as a number of hippos are said to be on the move after leaving the nearby Great Fish River Nature Reserve. Last week a hippo roaming near a local primary school in KwaNdlambe village was shot and killed by Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency (ECPTA) rangers. Now it has been confirmed that up to 10 others are unaccounted for as they have roamed downstream and found their way out of the game reserve, possibly to nearby village dams. One of those spotted recently in a nearby village has a baby in tow. All mothers are dangerous when their offspring are threatened. ECPTA CEO Vuyani Dayimani last week confirmed that a number of hippos, “possible five to six”, were on the loose as they were unaccounted for. He said there has been an agreement between provincial department of economic development, environmental affairs and tourism and ECPTA to strengthen fencing in the river course, saying this was one of the reasons the hippos were finding their way out of the reserve. “We have also engaged experts and professionals to assist with the removal of the animals that are outside the reserve. That process is ongoing,” said Dayimani. Locals say that there are more hippos roaming the Ngqushwa Municipality, from Glenmoore to Pikoli village, and that they were settling in communal dams. Glenmoore is the closest to the reserve and the hippos use the river to go to other areas downstream. Local herdsman Themba Njuku says it has become a norm for the hippos to roam around the villages searching for food. “They travel up and down through the river searching for food and go into dams in these areas. “Sometimes they are in Glenmoore and sometimes you find them in Pikoli and kwaNdlambe villages. “We have found it normal because they are able to graze with our cows without any harm. After a while when it is hot they go into local dams and then vacate after a while,” said Njuku. He explained that the community chose to inform authorities about the hippo at kwaNdlambe Dam which was shot and killed last week. “I don’t like the killing of these hippos but the problem we had with the one at KwaNdlambe last week was that it eats people’s crops in the ploughing fields and the dam was situated next to the primary school so we couldn’t take any chances,” Njuku explained. Dayimani explained the reason for the killing of the animal instead of darting it and removing it to a safe place. “Darting and capturing a hippo that is in water in a densely populated area is a risky and difficult exercise as the hippo may end up dying in the water. “Shooting is then deemed to be the most appropriate course of action” explained Dayimani. Njuku told the Dispatch about one female hippo popular in all villages that has an offspring, saying he would not want to see it killed like the one from last week. “It normally comes here in our village with its offspring and used to eat in the ploughing fields before a fence was built. “It doesn’t stay in one area for too long and only comes out when it is hot,” he said. ECPTA’s Dayimani confirmed that they knew about the hippo. “We are aware of a female with an offspring in the area [KwaNdlambe]. We are also aware of another five to six hippos further downstream.” He added: “The fluctuating water levels in the river often damage and wash away the fencing.” “They typically roam widely in search of food and are drawn to agricultural areas where there is an abundance of food. This situation has been exacerbated by drought,” he said. After a hippo was killed in the area on Tuesday, its carcass was given to the people of KwaNdlambe village who had a feast, with many of the villagers eating its meat for the first time. “It rained heavily after that. In our African culture, we believe that it is because of its blood that spilled into the dam,” said Chief Mxolisi Makinana of amaMhala of Ndlambe. — mandilakhek@dispatch.co.za