Veteran journalist, author, and ardent women’s rights activist Thelma Neville died peacefully in her sleep in Grahamstown on Sunday night, aged 101.  Neville was much beloved by the Grahamstown community and was renowned for her writing, wicked sense of humour and for her love of cigarettes which she would elegantly wave about as she told her many fascinating stories. Born on July 22 1916, Neville began her career in journalism at the Argus newspaper in Cape Town aged just 18. Journalism was her means of funding her university studies. She read for a BA degree majoring in English and history.
Writing became a way of life. According to close family friend Nicky Turner, she married her husband, Geoff in 1951 and they moved to Grahamstown in 1952 where she remained for the rest of her life. A prolific journalist, she wrote for the Daily Dispatch, the Sunday Times and most other major publications in the country, in both English and Afrikaans. “Her articles were published in papers as far afield as Edinburgh and London,” said Turner. She was the regional representative for SABC news for 40 years and covered the 1994 and subsequent elections. Later in life she wrote children’s stories for radio. She wrote two books: “More lasting than Bronze” about the construction of the 1820 Settlers’ Monument and “A Story of Rhodes” which she co-authored with Turner’s father, Richard Buckland. Turner said she had died as she had lived; on her own terms. “She smoked her cigarettes right up until the end and was not above sneaking one in her room at Brookshaw (retirement home), much to the consternation of the staff.” Thelma died peacefully in her sleep at Brookshaw on Sunday evening. She leaves her half-brother Vaughan and her nephew Michael Vincent. Turner said the details of her memorial service would be announced in due course. Thelma Neville, the feisty Grahamstown journalist, author and fundraiser for the Monument building, has celebrated her 101st birthday party in style. On Saturday morning, she entertained guests who included academics, journalists, business people and family from East London in a grand dining room at Brookshaw Home – all set with… July 24, 2017 An amazing woman of Grahamstown – journalist, fundraiser and ardent women’s rights advocate – Thelma Neville, turned 100 yesterday.  A prominent resident of Constitution Street, where she has lived independently for years in her rambling home with its enormous trees, she has sweeping views of the Monument Building she was… July 23, 2016 Human rights warrior, writer, editor and renowned lifelong champion of the oppressed, Priscilla Hall, died aged 78 at her Grahamstown home this week. As news of her death spread through Grahamstown, there was an outpouring of grief as well as camaraderie and joy with people who knew her telling stories… July 14, 2017