Custom officials have seized crystal meth valued at more than R18 million over the past week at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg. Officials from the SA Revenue Service (SARS) confiscated batches of the illegal drug on two separate occasions. The first incident occurred on Saturday as officials conducted a baggage scan of a male passenger who had arrived in the country from Kenya. “They noticed suspicious objects in his three bags and conducted a further search‚ subsequently discovering 12 plastic bags containing a white powdery substance‚” SARS said in a statement. “Drug tests confirmed that the substance was crystal methamphetamine valued at R17‚202‚000. The drugs and the passenger were handed over to the South African Police Service for further investigation.” On Friday officials found a parcel destined for Malaysia via courier. “The parcel was declared as ‘gifts’ but on closer inspection‚ officials discovered sachets containing a white crystal substance. A drug test confirmed it was crystal meth‚ valued at just under R1 million. The case was also handed over to the SAPS.” -TimesLIVE South African Revenue Service (SARS) Customs officers at OR Tambo International Airport made significant busts as part of intensive weekend and daily operations over the past few months‚ with the biggest bust thus far this week‚ being a baggage of 125.4kg of liquid methamphetamine with a street value of R37.6-million.… August 25, 2015 A South African actress who flew into Johannesburg from Abu Dhabi with 15 packages of drugs was caught by Customs officials yesterday. The bust was at the OR Tambo International Airport‚ South African Revenue Service said in a statement‚ describing it as “a significant seizure”. The actress‚ who cannot be… September 28, 2015 The South African Revenue Service (SARS) said its customs officials “intercepted a man who claimed an unaccompanied bag containing 20kg of ephedrine valued at R6-million at OR Tambo International Airport” on Wednesday. It said the bust “followed collaborative efforts between SARS‚ airline officials and South African Police Service (SAPS)”. SARS… May 26, 2016