Did President Jacob Zuma jet off to Swaziland on Thursday night‚ as speculation about his future continues to swirl?  Zuma’s spokesman has rubbished the claim‚ made in a tweet by @Pasco–e. Posted at 6.34pm on Thursday and containing two pics of Zuma shaking hands with officials while a military plane is parked in the background‚ the tweet reads: “Like a night-running tokoloshe‚ Jacob Zuma snuck into Swaziland last night. The chaps @PresidencyZA posted these pics then quickly deleted them when we started asking questions. We still want to know what he’s doing there.” I just spoke to @PresidencyZA spokesman Bongani Ngqulunga. His response is this: “This appears to be an old picture. In any event, he did not visit Swaziland [last night].” https://t.co/56rStEjgaZ — Snap @matthewsavides (@matthewsavides) February 9, 2018  TimesLIVE sent the tweet and pictures to Presidency spokesman Bongani Ngqulunga on Friday morning‚ asking to verify its contents. He replied on WhatsApp: “This appears to be an old picture. In any event‚ he did not visit Swaziland. That was two years or so ago‚ I think.” According to The Presidency‚ Zuma visited Swaziland in June 2017 and in August the year before to attend an SADC summit. In a more formal response‚ Ngqulunga said: “The rumours that President Zuma visited Swaziland yesterday‚ 8 February 2018‚ are not true. The President has not gone out of the country since the AU summit [in Ethiopia in January].” By 9.15am on Friday the tweet had 127 retweets‚ 90 likes and 33 comments. President Jacob Zuma has denied allegations contained in journalist Jacques Pauw’s new book that he has failed to submit his tax returns for a number of years. In the book‚ titled The President’s Keepers‚ Pauw claimed Zuma failed to submit a tax return for his first four years in office.… October 29, 2017 President Jacob Zuma’s son‚ Edward‚ has taken aim at his father’s wife‚ First Lady Thobeka Madiba-Zuma‚ over a picture she posted of her and Zuma captioned “it’s about to get ugly”.   He said the post was “unfortunate and regrettable”. On Friday at about 1pm‚ she took to get @firstladyzuma… February 9, 2018 Mantashe’s warning to Zuma - By Zingisa Mvumvu  ANC national chairman Gwede Mantashe yesterday said President Jacob Zuma’s continued resistance to stepping down would leave the party with no choice but to support the route of the vote of no confidence through parliament. https://youtu.be/1cDuYP89IuA The ANC announced yesterday that it… February 14, 2018