A year after Emtee had fans in a frenzy after confirming to TshisaLIVE that he was starting his own TV reality music competition‚ the rapper is finally hoping it will see the light of day and make it on screens. Emtee revealed early last year that he had the idea for a reality show called Rap4Me which would unearth Mzansi’s next big hip-hop artist. “I have this idea for a TV show that will discover young rap talent and also showcase them to the country. I am passionate about young talent and have tried to expose them to the industry through my new record label. This is just the next step in that‚” Emtee said at the time. However TshisaLIVE has learnt that the project was put on ice after not enough people showed up at auditions and the rapper’s busy schedule threatened to unravel the entire production. The Pearl Thusi hitmaker’s manager‚ Lebo Maswanganyi‚ confirmed that there were logistical delays but said it would still go ahead. “We are still shooting the show and have been this whole week. I think we announced it a little too soon last year with no proper planning or conceptualisation. We had auditions but it wasn’t marketed properly so we didn’t have enough content. We had to go back to the drawing board and work on it again. Also‚ Emtee’s schedule was very busy with shows and other projects.” He said they planned to relaunch the show next month with it airing near the middle of the year. It will be broadcast on GauTV‚ even after the broadcaster pulled adverts for it in the middle of last year. “GauTV have been very supportive of the project and have been patient with us. We are looking forward to it finally being on screens‚” Lebo added. Stardom could be just around the corner for hip-hop newcomer Emtee from Matatiele, who has been nominated in four categories for the Metro FM Music Awards next month. Emtee, whose real name is Mthembeni Ndevu, saw his hit single Roll Up win the coveted song of the year title at… January 26, 2016 Award-winning Eastern Cape rapper Emtee is coming to East London this month to perform at a music festival. Emtee, whose real name is Mthembeni Ndevu, will be performing at the Buffalo City Stadium, also known as the Absa Stadium. The event, organised by Booi Entertainment, will also feature legendary hip-hop… July 15, 2016 Hip hop sensation Emtee is currently the most played and talked about rapper in the country, but the 23-year-old does not want fame to get into his head. Mthembeni Ndevu, AKA Emtee, told the Saturday Dispatch it had always been his dream to have his music featured on major stations across… March 19, 2016