By APHIWE DEKLERK and SIPHE MACANDA Despite the ANC national executive committee’s decision to recall President Jacob Zuma from the Union Buildings both the party and the country remain in the dark on the date of his exit.   ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule admitted at a media conference in Luthuli House‚ the ANC head office‚ that the party had not given Zuma a deadline for his exit. “I don’t know what will happen …the NEC believes that it is an urgent matter‚” Magashule. He was not clear what steps the party would take should Zuma decline to resign from his post. “As the ANC we have not discussed any motion of no confidence‚” said Magashule. He said there was still room for negotiation with Zuma but the decision of the ANC on his recall was final. But Magashule said he expected Zuma to respond to the decision of the NEC on Wednesday but could not say what the party planned to do should he again refuse to resign. Currently‚ Zuma is facing a motion of no confidence in Parliament tabled by the Economic Freedom Fighters. The party had given National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete until 1pm today to make a decision on the EFF’s request to bring forward the motion of no confidence failing which they will take the matter to court. By the time of writing it was still unclear if the party had filed court papers against Mbete. “[As the ANC] I don’t know whether we will support the motion of no confidence. We are a party and any party which is governing‚ there is no way the opposition will support it. The role of the opposition is to oppose what the ruling party is doing‚ so we are not expecting [to support the motion]‚” said Magashule. Magashule said the ANC will be communicating the decision of the NEC to party structures‚ starting with the ANC caucus in Parliament on Wednesday. He said they will further communicate the decision to lower structures over the weekend. Speaking about Monday night’s discussions‚ Magashule said he and Ramaphosa were sent to speak with Zuma to communicate that the NEC had rejected his proposal for an extended stay in office. He said the party had also decided that if there will be a State of the Nation Address‚ it would be addressed by Ramaphosa as the country’s president. Magashule said when the NEC took a decision to recall Zuma it was not because he had been found guilty by any court of law but because the party took the decision to align centres of power. – TimesLIVE  President Jacob Zuma has told some of his allies that he will not resign because he is angered by ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. Zuma is of the view that Ramaphosa reneged on the agreement they reached last week that they would manage his exit in a way that keeps the… February 13, 2018 Mantashe’s warning to Zuma - By Zingisa Mvumvu  ANC national chairman Gwede Mantashe yesterday said President Jacob Zuma’s continued resistance to stepping down would leave the party with no choice but to support the route of the vote of no confidence through parliament. https://youtu.be/1cDuYP89IuA The ANC announced yesterday that it… February 14, 2018 The ANC’s national executive committee has decided to recall President Jacob Zuma as head of state‚ with no deal and an ultimatum. The final decision was taken after a 13-hour marathon meeting that lasted into the early hours of Tuesday and was due to be formally communicated to him in… February 13, 2018