By MOIPONE MALEFANE and THABO MOKONE Newly elected President of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday gave a clear indication that he will be making changes to the cabinet. Yesterday, when he addressed parliament after being elected South African president, Ramaphosa admitted that there was a lot of work that needed to be done for the people of the country and he would need a great team to work with him. “We should choose a great team. That’s what our people deserve, to have a team that will work in their interests. Yes, and also that all of us should be able to work and lead our people with great courage,” he said. This can be interpreted as being ready to effect changes to his cabinet, as some of the ministers are implicated in corruption. An insider in the Ramaphosa camp confirmed the imminent changes, saying ministers like Bathabile Dlamini and Mosebenzi Zwane would get the chop. Ramaphosa will address the nation properly today in the state of the nation address. His election in the National Assembly was unopposed as other parties chose not to nominate any other candidate. In a moment he will never forget, backbencher MP Patrick Maesela rose to nominate Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed former President Jacob Zuma. Maesela was backed by long-serving senior ANC MP Joan Fubbs, who chairs the portfolio committee on trade and industry. ANC MPs burst into the party’s latest trademark song Phakama Ramaphosa, ixesha lisondele (Rise Ramaphosa, the time has indeed arrived!) when his election was confirmed by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, who presided over the election. “I’m trying to adapt to an environment I’m not used to. In a court of law singing is not allowed,” jested Mogoeng in response to loud singing by ANC MPs. National Assembly speaker Baleka Mbete, who sat next to the new president during the election, hugged and kissed Ramaphosa. The EFF walked out before the election of Ramaphosa could take place as they were unhappy that Mbete had refused their demand for her to read out former president Jacob Zuma’s resignation letter. However, other opposition parties such as the DA, the IFP, and the UDM pledged to work with Ramaphosa towards solving the socio-economic problems of the country. Ramaphosa committed himself to being fully accountable to parliament, and added he would introduce regular engagements with opposition parties outside the processes of the national legislature. “One of the things that I will be seeking to do: I will seek to work with all political parties and I will start it off with seeking a meeting with all leaders of political parties so that we can try and find a way of working together. “And I am heartened by some of the sentiments expressed here about working together. I will do all these as a servant of the people; I will seek to execute that task with humility, faithfulness and dignity,” he said. Ramaphosa called on MPs to help restore the public’s respect for parliament by raising the quality of debates in the house. “Let’s deal with the current moment and work together on how we’re going to improve the lives of our people, rather than just grandstanding. It would be wonderful if the level of debate in this house can be raised to the level where we can engage on national issues without screaming at each other, without words like ‘point of order’ on an ongoing basis and the disorder that has often defined what happens in this house. “I would want us to rise to this house. “I agree you would want a president who will respect not only this house but also members of this house. But the flipside of that coin says we must respect one another; in respecting one other, it means that we’re respecting this house, and it means that we’ll be respecting our people.” Eastern Cape ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi reacted to Ramaphosa’s election saying: “Our hopes are pinned on the leadership of President Ramaphosa. “This is the time for the country to redefine itself as our entire economy has been at a standstill. We can now rebuild our economy for the benefit of our people. “The Eastern Cape will benefit from the spin-offs of this presidency as the country benefits and grows,” he said. — Additional reporting by Zingisa Mvumvu and Zolile Menzelwa