The future of Nelson Mandela Bay Metro (NMB) municipality mayor Athol Trollip hangs in the balance after the EFF yesterday announced its intention to table a motion of no confidence against him. In a dramatic turn of events, the EFF said it was now ready to vote for an ANC candidate if they field a “credible” individual. This was tweeted by EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu, who said the party’s national leadership had instructed the EFF in NMB to institute the motion against Trollip. The EFF’s caucus leader in the Bay council, Zilindile Vena, confirmed it. According to Vena, the EFF was no longer willing to work with a party that did not agree with the its seven cardinal pillars, one being expropriation of land without compensation, which the DA opposed in national assembly yesterday. The latest fallout between the two parties, which supported each other previously when the UDM and Patriotic Alliance called for Trollip’s head, leaves the DA with no strategic ally. This is worsened by the fact that they have long fallen out with the UDM after the DA removed then-deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa was the first to reply to Shivambu’s tweet yesterday, saying it would serve the DA right as “they have proved to be bunch of liars and manipulators”. But when called for further comment, Holomisa said it was a matter between the DA and EFF and that they “will see the motion when D-day comes”. The ANC caucus in NMB last night welcomed the latest developments saying they were ready to work with EFF as they had done on other matters of common interest. ANC caucus leader Bicks Ndoni said it made sense for EFF and ANC to work together, especially since they served a similar constituency. He added that the matter would be handled by the party at a political level in the engagements expected to ensue with the EFF leadership. “Working with EFF will assist our people. We have always been working together with minority parties in the Bay including the EFF on several issues such as budget adjustment today (yesterday), but the ANC leadership at a political level will discuss the nitty-gritties,” said Ndoni. DA leader in the Eastern Cape and mayoral committee member in NMB Nqaba Bhanga cautioned the EFF to put the people first, “not populism”. Bhanga said the DA would never alter its ideological leaning to please the EFF, but doors were open for engagement should the red berets so wish. “Under the DA-led government the Nelson Mandela Metro was delivering services and bringing back the ANC will just be a reversal of those as we will once again see poor governance here again,” said Bhanga. — zingisam@dispatch.co.za