The Eastern Cape department of education is investigating six teachers, including a school principal, who have all been accused of sleeping with pupils. The allegations first emerged at the Flagstaff High School two weeks ago amid claims that a Grade 9 pupil was pregnant by a teacher. Since then, a number of school girls have come forward to speak out against sexual abuse at the school. It is alleged that teachers were having sexual relations with pupils and demanding sex from Grade 11 pupils in exchange for promoting them to Grade 12. Outraged parents last week shut down the school, vowing to keep the doors of learning closed until the matter was dealt with and the implicated teachers removed from the school. The Daily Dispatch understands police are investigating some of the cases. Education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said the allegations were reported to the department two weeks ago. A task team consisting of a psychologist, school governing body members and circuit managers were sent to the school to investigate the matter and encourage pupils to speak out. “A number of pupils came forward and what was established was that sexual relations between teachers and pupils were very rampant at the school. “Parents were kept informed on the development and pupils who came forward were offered counseling.” Mtima said the department considered the allegations as very serious. “In some cases we have involved the police for criminal charges to be laid because there were very serious allegations.” Mtima said he was unable at this stage to say how many pupils had come forward as it might jeopardise the investigations and compromise the pupils’ confidentiality. Some pupils claimed they were being failed to punish them for refusing sexual advances made by a teacher. Last Monday, angry parents marched to the school and closed it down after the allegations of a teacher impregnating a Grade 9 pupil emerged. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch, a parent, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the pupil, said the entire community was shocked and deeply hurt. “This is a disgrace. We send our children to school to get an education and they come home impregnated by a teacher. “That teacher must be punished. In fact, all those who are involved must be banned from teaching and locked up in jail,” said the parent. Another parent said they would return to the school today to ensure that no teaching and learning takes place. “We will not send our children to school until those criminals are removed,” said the parent. A meeting between the parents, SGB and circuit managers is planned for today, in which the department hopes to find amicable solutions that would ensure schooling resumes without disruptions. Mtima said if the disruptions continued, the department will have to explore alternatives such as suspending the accused teachers. “The allegations are very serious,” said Mtima. — arethal@dispatch.co.za