Chris Hani District Municipality (CHDM) has maintained its qualified audit opinion for the fourth consecutive year from the office of the Auditor-General. The municipality received a qualified audit opinion with 49 findings. However, the district authority promised to focus on the issues raised by the AG. Speaking at an ordinary council meeting yesterday, CHDM mayor Kholiswa Vimbayo said it was time to improve from the AG’s findings. “We will be working with the office of the auditor-general to identify and deal with the issues we can work on,” she said. When presenting the audit action plan, Vimbayo said they would monitor the audit action plan as the mayoral committee. “We have tasked management to take actions on some of the issues raised. Some of the issues that have been raised will change, in particular in the supply chain management department. “We will follow the audit action plan up and report to council on the implementation of the issues raised,” she said. Vimbayo said they would focus more on the supply chain management, revenue management and predetermined objectives, as they have a major impact on the audit report and the management letter. “The 49 audit report findings and the 46 findings that were lifted from the management report might affect the audit report in future,” she said. Zamahlangu Dithwa, from the office of the AG, said they would like to see improvement in the municipality. “The problem started when the municipality took over the water services. There is still a lot of work that needs to be done, and some of them were raised in the previous audit report. Data cleansing is needed in order to be able to account for the water.” She said some of the issues raised in the report are the receivables from exchange transaction, revenue from exchange transactions, not meeting commitments made, irregular expenditure and water losses. “There is a need to tighten the supply chain management process and follow processes. The municipal public accounts committee needs to investigate irregular expenditure so that the proper actions are taken in order to reduce it,” Ditwa said. “There is a need to tighten internal controls in the municipality.” — thembiles@dispatch.co.za