South Africa could have a new president by mid-afternoon on Thursday. The office of ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu emailed MPs on Wednesday night‚ before Jacob Zuma had tendered his immediate resignation as president‚ to inform them of Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng’s availability. “The chief whip of the majority party has been informed by the Speaker [Baleka Mbete] that the chief justice is making himself available after the motion of no confidence to officiate in the election of the new president of South Africa. This item was scheduled for Friday morning. We are now moving it forward to Thursday afternoon or evening‚” the email read. However‚ with the motion no longer necessary‚ Parliament will instead elect the man or woman who will replace Zuma as the country’s First Citizen. The election will most likely take place at 2pm – the same time originally allocated for the motion of no confidence against Jacob Zuma. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said he thought “the opposition was duty-bound” to offer up an alternative candidate to the ANC’s expected nominee‚ current party president and state deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa. Should this happen‚ he said‚ it would trigger a debate and then a secret ballot by MPs. “What will be interesting to watch is what the Zuma faction of the ANC does. Will they do to their candidate what the party has done to Zuma? Will there be abstentions‚ or spoiled ballots‚ or will they cast their vote for an opposition candidate?” said Steenhuisen on Thursday morning. Should Parliament elect a new president on Thursday‚ the previously postponed State of the Nation Address will most likely take place at the scheduled time of 7pm on Friday. The ANC has instructed its caucus in parliament to file a no confidence motion against President Zuma on Thursday. Treasurer General Paul Mashatile communicated this decision to the caucus at midday on Wednesday, saying: "We can no longer keep South Africa waiting. If President Zuma at some point responds, but… February 14, 2018 ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu says the party is relieved Jacob Zuma has resigned as president. “We are relieved that he has resigned because the motion of no confidence falls away. We don’t have to vote our own out of office‚” he said on Radio 702 on Thursday. He said… February 15, 2018 The chief whip of the DA in Parliament‚ John Steenhuisen‚ says it is too late for his governing-party counterpart‚ Jackson Mthembu‚ to realise that President Jacob Zuma is not good for South Africa. “We are delighted that Mr Mthembu has belatedly come round to our thinking‚ that President Zuma can… November 21, 2017