A Class full of eager and anxious learner licence test writers were stood up by an Mdantsane traffic officer in charge of the test.  Some travelled in the early hours of the morning from Mthatha for their 9am appointment at the Mdantsane traffic department on Monday. Yola Siwendu, of Mthatha said: “This is really an inconvenience as we changed our work schedules to make this appointment. Now we have to arrange another day to write again.” She made the point that had she been the one who was late, the examiner would not have allowed her to write or given her a refund. “I woke up at 5am because I didn’t want to miss this appointment. I was very disappointed to find out that there was no examiner” She said the facility was also filthy. Toilets were dirty, papers and rubbish lay on the floor. “I could see that the disappointment in the faces of the teenagers who were there to write. They were demotivated. I was too,” she said. “They [officials] said they would call to arrange another date for us, but they haven’t. I am the one who keeps calling them with no response.” Phumla Mpofu, of NU10, said what irritated her most was that the traffic department did not bother to call them to postpone prior to the officer’s no-show. “Mdantsane is a big township, how can they only have one examiner? Now we don’t have clarity as to when we will be scheduled to write our learners.” Buffalo City Metro spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said: “The city would like to apologise for the inconvenience caused by the matter that resulted in the test not being written on the day.” She said they had communicated with all the applicants and reached an agreement to write the test tomorrow at 9am. “For now, we will monitor the situation and deploy more examiners when the need arises.” She did not say why the officer did not pitch. Schoolgirl Lutho Felepu, 13, collapsed and died in a desperate bid for  a taxi seat in the Eastern Cape government’s limited scholar transport system on Tuesday. The Ngwenyathi High School Grade 8 pupil, who had a heart condition, knew that only 163 kids out of 343 at her school would get… April 21, 2015 Former David Mama High School pupils Pedrona Mahuwa, Nomgqibelo Gabada, Zimbini Gubevu and Linda Mbolekwa handed over new school uniforms to 30 needy pupils from the Mdantsane-based school yesterday. The former pupils are among a group of 20 that go by the name of “David Mama Reunion”. They opened a… October 12, 2016 Eldorado Park community feared that ‘rotten’ black teachers would be at an advantage with black principal‚ commission told The Eldorado Park community was concerned that the “rotten” black teachers at Klipspruit West Secondary School would be at an advantage if a black principal was appointed to oversee them. This was… October 15, 2017