By ZINE GEORGE and MBALI TANANA Eastern Cape ANC boss Oscar Mabuyane took a tough stance yesterday, saying all forms of corruption should be rooted out and that service delivery should be a priority – and not party squabbles. Mabuyane was addressing a gathering attended by ANC regional, provincial and government leaders, including Small Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu, Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti, Tourism Minister Thoko Xasa, Economic Development Deputy Minister Madala Masuku, Labour Deputy Minister Phathekile Holomisa and Energy Deputy Minister Thembisile Majola. Mabuyane did not mince his words at the party’s lekgotla at the East London ICC, saying when the ANC was perceived as corrupt, it hurt the party at the polls. “We need to be very clear about our mandate. We mustn’t diminish the idea of [former president] Nelson Mandela, of building a united South Africa and we need to deal with those who continue to tarnish the name of the ANC because the organisation has been projected as arrogant and in denial. “We can’t be told by the courts to implement our own legislation. We must act decisively, without fear or favour to deal with corruption and follow through with service delivery and rid ourselves of all the negative connotations,” he said. Mabuyane said corruption was among the threats to the economy and to small business. “Service providers face a challenge of having to pay a fee for work that is awarded to them, and even then, are forced to wait for payments after invoices have been submitted when the waiting period is strictly 30 working days. “It’s just like the white-owned companies that are hiding behind black names – they are cheating the system and that too qualifies as corruption,” he charged. Mabuyane called on the party’s national leaders to walk their talk when it came to unity, in honour of Mandela. The party has dedicated 2018 to him, as he would have turned 100 in July. As Mabuyane was speaking yesterday, party leader Cyril Ramaphosa and his officials were meeting with President Jacob Zuma to ask him to step down as the head of the state. Removing Zuma would end the party’s “two centres of power” problem, as Luthuli House and the Union Buildings currently have separate bosses. The dilemma has deeply divided the party, which shocked many at its 54th conference in Nasrec in December when, for the first time post-apartheid, delegates elected an executive free of slate politics. Mabuyane said: “We’ve just emerged from a united 54th national conference, yet it seems we are fast returning to our old ways of public spats, contradicting statements within the leadership, indecisiveness, and other negative tendencies.” The lekgotla comes days after the provincial executive committee made a thorough assessment of its performance in government. But that will be topped up by presentations which will be led by Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle and his executive on the performance of each department. “Our people should not suffer because of our divisions, trust deficits, and anxieties. We must provide leadership even when it is painful to do so,” Mabuyane said. The party announced last week that based on each department’s performance, it would consider shaking up the Masualle-led cabinet. Mabuyane reaffirmed this yesterday, but added that such changes could not be handled haphazardly. Turning his attention to the drought, Mabuyane said: “Dams in Mnquma municipality are among those that have run dry and taps have become ghosts in many villages within the province. “For years people have been living in ‘day zero’, but when it’s happening in Cape Town everybody is making a noise about it. Even the Chibuku manufacturing factory in Butterworth has closed and so many jobs have been lost, and now they are manufacturing in Durban because of the shortage of water.” Masuku said there was a critical need to improve investment in new factories and mines and to expand farms and grow tourism among other services. “Our biggest asset as a country is land. We need to increase the value of land by building special economic zones, districts, agri-parks and aquaculture,” he said. Zulu said everyone needed to understand how the economy worked, so people understood how to boost it. “Focusing on radical economical transformation doesn’t mean we must turn a blind eye to the other components that make an impact on our economy. “It starts with understanding the economy of your respective area and supporting local business,” she said. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba and Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies are expected to be among the cabinet ministers who will descend on East London tomorrow to take part in the ANC’s provincial lekgotla. The meeting, which will be held behind closed doors at the East London International Convention Centre,… February 3, 2018 ANC presidential candidate Cyril Ramaphosa told an enraptured Eastern Cape dinner crowd that radical transformation should not only be seen in “Durban” but also in and around Mthatha. In a thinly-veiled reference to the party and country’s incumbent President Jacob Zuma Ramaphosa, the party’s deputy president, who spoke at a… December 4, 2017 TWO MECs, a deputy minister, a union leader and a mayor have made it into the newly elected Eastern Cape ANC provincial leadership. https://youtu.be/YJ6YOdahDdw This was after The Elexions Agency finalised the list of additional members of the Oscar Mabuyane-led PEC during the early hours of yesterday morning. Topping the… October 3, 2017