Hlaudi Motsoeneng is expected to challenge his dismissal from the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) at the CCMA on Monday. The SABC http://www.sabcnews.com/sabcnews/motsoenengs-unfair-dismissal-case-get-underway/ reported that the case was expected to get under way after the parties failed to reach agreement during conciliation last year. Motsoeneng was fired after a disciplinary committee found he had violated the state broadcaster’s code of conduct by holding a press conference. TimesLIVE reported last year that the controversial former SABC COO had managed to dodge damning findings by the public protector and a R10-million bonus scandal. But in the end‚ it was a bizarre press conference that led to his downfall. During the press conference on April 19 he lashed out at the SABC interim board and especially at Krish Naidoo‚ whoM he called a “sell-out”. Motsoeneng was unhappy the board’s plan to halt his 90% local content policy. Interim board chairman Khanyisile Kweyama explained‚ at the time‚ why Motsoeneng was sacked. “They [the reasons] were misconduct. They were bringing the SABC into disrepute and also the relationship breakdown between employer and the employee based on the statements he made about the SABC board‚ the ad hoc committee in parliament‚ as well as the judge who presided over some matters‚” she said. At the time of the April media conference‚ Motsoeneng was already suspended because of findings made by the public protector relating to his qualifications. His lawyer Zola Majavu told the SABC: “We are hoping that the matter should be wrapped up in the next three days.” Former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng had tongues wagging after he took to the stage at Mandoza’s funeral to push his own agenda‚ lambasting his critics. Motsoeneng was given the opportunity to pay tribute to the fallen Kwaito star at a funeral service currently underway at Grace Bible Church in Soweto‚ … September 23, 2016 Suspended SABC executive Hlaudi Motsoeneng has fired yet another broadside at the public broadcaster’s interim board‚ accusing it of “playing to the gallery” after it charged him with bringing the company into disrepute. Motsoeneng’s lawyers say the interim board is dealing unfairly with their client because it failed to institute… April 25, 2017 Former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng will on Wednesday afternoon appear before a disciplinary hearing on comments he made at a media briefing last month. Motsoeneng’s legal representative‚ advocate Zola Majavu‚ rubbished reports that the disciplinary hearing stemmed from a report by the Public Protector recommending that disciplinary action be taken… May 17, 2017