A parent has opened a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm (GHB) against the deputy principal of a high school in King William’s Town who allegedly hit his 15-year-old son with a plank from a broken desk.  The father, who cannot be named to protect the identity of his child, who is a minor, said his son was taken to hospital. He said the teen had injuries to the head, face and neck and was limping after the deputy principal and a teacher “attacked” the boy. The criminal charge relates to an incident last Friday, when the Grade 8 pupil apparently went to school armed with a knife and a spade to confront a prefect who had upbraided him for his dress code earlier in the day. According to the father, the assault took place in one of the rooms inside the school’s admin block. King William’s Town police spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa confirmed that police were investigating the case. The Dispatch was unable to get comment from the school. The school’s secretary asked the reporter to call back later as both the principal and deputy principal were unavailable. However, several calls made later went unanswered. Provincial education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said: “The matter is before the court of law so we cannot comment.” “I am not justifying my son’s actions. He was absolutely wrong, hence I supported calling the police. However, what they did to him was unlawful,” said the boy’s father. The man who shot and killed a 17-year-old Dale College pupil, allegedly in self-defence, was an on-duty VIP protection unit police officer. This was revealed as the principal of Dale College yesterday called for a thorough investigation into the circumstances of the shooting, casting doubt that the pupil, who had… May 19, 2017 An Eastern Cape school principal faces both a criminal charge and disciplinary action after he allegedly sjambokked a 14-year-old pupil, leaving him with bloody stripes all over his body. Siyavuya Mapapu, in Grade 7 at Cofimvaba village school, says he was beaten by Mzukisi Mdlankomo after he had a fight… November 18, 2016 Joyful Noise creche principal Cindy Reely appeared in the King William’s Town Magistrate’s Court yesterday on a charge of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Reely is alleged to have bitten a six-year-old boy to give him “a taste of his own medicine” after he had bitten another… December 2, 2017