By NICOLETTE SCROOBY STIRK Yazbek Attorneys Notaries & Conveyancers is a boutique law firm specialising in civil litigation, commercial, property, estates and family law. On March 1, 2014 Gary Joseph Stirk and Matthew Anthony Yazbek joined forces to open their legal practice in Vincent, East London. Together they have over 40 years of experience as attorneys, ensuring their clients get the best legal advice and representation. Gary was schooled at Graeme College in Grahamstown, matriculating in 1986. Thereafter he did a post-matric at Kingswood College and then a BA LLB at Rhodes University where he graduated in 1991. After travelling overseas in 1992 he commenced articles in East London in 1993 at Marshall & Kaplan before joining J.A Yazbek & Company Attorneys in 1995. Gary was admitted as an attorney in 1995, as a conveyancer in 1996 and as a notary in 1997. He also has a tax diploma from the Rand Afrikaans University. He acted as a Small Claims Court Commissioner in East London for many years and is fluent in Afrikaans and Xhosa.  Matthew attended Selborne Primary and Selborne College matriculating in 1988. He remains a dedicated Old Selbornian. As a keen sportsman, he represented his province at hockey and attained first team colours. Thereafter he studied at Rhodes University and the University of South Africa where the B.Proc degree was conferred on him. He was admitted as an attorney in 1997 and a conveyancer shortly thereafter. The legal genes are firmly entrenched in Matthew’s family. His late grandfather, Joseph Anthony Yazbek, started JA Yazbek and Company in East London with his life-long friend, Reginald Bosworth-Smith, in 1939. In 1967 Matthew’s father Mark Anthony Yazbek was admitted as a lawyer and thereafter Notary and worked in the family firm, J.A Yazbek & Company later known as Yazbeks Attorneys. Matthew practised with his father from 1991 when he started his articles. Gary and Matthew worked together in the company for many years before combining forces to open Stirk Yazbek Attorneys four years ago. Matthew said: “It was important for us that the firm be situated in the suburbs. We are conveniently accessible with on-site parking.” Gary and Matthew are supported by two professional assistants – Jenny Fraser and Zanele George – as well as a team of dedicated staff. The firm has a staff complement of 12. “We’re grateful for passionate and dedicated staff who are central to the efficiency of our business.” Matthew said: “We aim to give personal attention to each matter as we are passionate about securing the right outcome for our clients.” “We are excited to celebrate our fourth anniversary and to assist the East London and Border community with their general law requirements.” Gary added: “We are proud of the role and our small part therein that the courts have played in a democratic society. The courts have dispensed justice and stood up to the bad guys and that makes our jobs so meaningful.” Stirk Yazbek Attorneys thanked all their clients, friends and family for their support. “We look forward to meeting new clients and continuing our strong relationship with our loyal and existing clients.” CONTACT DETAILS:
Tel: 043 726 8310
Address: 18 Vincent Road, Vincent, East London, 5247
E-mail: 
matthew@stirkyazbek.co.za
gary@stirkyazbek.co.za
Website: www.stirkyazbek.co.za
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/StirkYazbek/