The first Buffalo City Metro stakeholders consultative meetings for geographical name changes that started this week drew mixed reactions from residents. BCM took the meetings to Bhisho, King William’s Town, Dimbaza, Berlin and Zwelitsha on Monday and Tuesday to consult residents about the proposed geographical name change project to be implemented around the metro. Meetings that were supposed to be held yesterday in Kidd’s Beach and East London were postponed to Monday, February 26. While some councillors said the project was warmly welcomed in their wards, others told the Saturday Dispatch yesterday that their meetings took an unexpected turn. Ward 41 (Zwelitsha) councillor Sindiswa Skepe said instead of commenting mainly about the proposed name changes in the metro, residents called for BCM to erect street names in Zwelitsha instead. “The meeting was held at the OR Tambo Hall on Tuesday and the officials presented proposed name changes for other areas and not necessarily Zwelitsha. They were happy about the move but what they really wanted was street names for the township,” said Skepe. “The outcry is that when residents need and call ambulances for help, the ambulances take forever to find the locations because there are no street names. People end up dying because of this crisis,” she added. Ward 36 (which includes Dimbaza) councillor Bongiwe Sauli said a meeting held at the Moses Twebe Hall did not go according to plan as residents from Ward 34 (Dimbaza township central, Polar Park, Tembisa) and Ward 36 complained about being “dumped” in the area by the old government. “Some residents said they wished the money that will be used for this project would be given to them as they are badly affected by poverty, they are hungry,” Sauli said, adding it was decided that each ward councillor would hold their own meetings with residents from their wards. The turnout for Monday’s meeting in Bhisho was poor due to most people being at work, ward councillor Zukiswa Mankanyi said. During the meetings, residents were given applications to fill out detailing their proposed names and the reasons behind the names. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said: “The consultations that have already sat were well attended by the public. “After the consultations have sat, the District Geographical Name Change Council [DGNC] will conduct public hearings where the proposed names will be discussed and agreed upon, thereafter taken to Provincial Geographical Name Change Council for further approval and later to National Geographical Name Change Council [PGNC] for implementation.” —
mamelag@dispatch.co.za