EFF leader Julius Malema has slammed the ANC for neglecting the Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital. Malema said the hospital was no longer fit to be called a hospital despite being the biggest in Southern Africa. “It is no longer a hospital‚ this thing qualifies to be a kraal where [President Cyril] Ramaphosa should come and put his buffaloes‚” said Malema. He said the president’s kraal was better than the hospital. “Ramaphosa’s house is better than the ward of children‚ where children are sleeping in a [cardboard box]‚” said Malema. Malema was speaking during the launch of his party’s campaign for better public healthcare. He said the black ANC government should have used the hospital to showcase that it could provide proper healthcare but had failed Malema later challenged Ramaphosa‚ saying that as a billionaire he should give up his salary to donate to the hospital. “You are a billionaire‚ you’ve got too much money. Why do you take a salary? Stop taking a salary … you don’t need a salary‚” said Malema. He said Ramaphosa should do his now famous morning walks at the hospital so that he can see what patients and workers are subjected to. The EFF‚ Malema said‚ will visit hospitals every month around the country but he also warned hospital workers to stop mistreating patients because of the unbearable working conditions they were subjected to. He encouraged patients to also take videos when they see patients being mistreated in order to hold staff members accountable. Malema also slammed both Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and Gauteng Premier David Makhura‚ implying that they were lying when they said they were not aware about the Life Esidimeni tragedy. Turning to politics‚ Malema said his party was still going to go through with a motion of no confidence in Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip as pay back for his party’s failure to vote with the EFF on its motion in Parliament to expropriate land without compensation. “We are going to remove the mayor of PE‚ not because he stole money or anything [but] because we want to teach these white people that we mean business when we say expropriation of land without compensation‚” said Malema. He said they were going “to cut the throat” just to show them that they didn’t owe them anything. “We are not blackmailing the DA‚ they can go to hell. We don’t want anything from them‚” added Malema. The door is still open for Zwelinzima Vavi and trade union Numsa, both ousted from union federation Cosatu, to join hands with the Economic Freedom Fighters, says Julius Malema. Malema said talks had been ongoing with Vavi and the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa because “we are supposed… December 2, 2015 Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has vowed that the party will do everything possible to prevent President Jacob Zuma from delivering the State of the Nation Address (Sona). Malema was giving a report back on the party’s fourth plenum held in Johannesburg at the weekend. Here are four… February 5, 2018 JULIUS Malema has called on East London’s informal settlement residents to stop voting for the ANC if they want to end abject poverty. He said the ANC had not replaced shacks with houses because its leaders now lived in plush suburbs and forgot about the the poor. “Teach the ANC… April 11, 2014