Hemingways Mall is holding its first annual bridal fair this weekend with up to 7000 prospective bridal couples and their entourages expected to shop for all the elements required for the big day. “We have been thinking about doing a bridal fair for a while and wanted to do it properly and differentiate it from all the others,” said Hemingways Mall marketing manager Estee Roos. “Bridal fairs usually take place at reception venues, but we are neutral and so we are showcasing many venues.” Roos said the bridal fair, which will be held above the food court in a large event space with large windows offering panoramic views of the city’s suburbs and the ocean beyond, was ideal for wedding vendors to exhibit their services. “The wedding industry is big in East London and we have so many stunning reception venues.” She said the fair was also an opportunity for small local businesses to showcase their offerings. “They have an opportunity to increase their footprint and use the platforms we have like advertising.” She said February was an ideal time to host a bridal fair because many couples got engaged over the summer holidays and on Valentine’s Day and were beginning to plan their wedding days. Dream Designs Décor owner Estelle Klopper, who is decorating the bridal fair venue, said she was festooning it with Chinese lanterns, fairy lights and creamy white draping for a matrimonial atmosphere. Klopper said a vast variety of vendors would represent every aspect of wedding planning including photographers, venues, cakes, bridalwear, suit hire, videography and flowers. “A lot of brides and grooms don’t know who to contact but a bridal fair will have the A to Z of everything they need. We even have a jazz musician from Port Elizabeth who will play the saxophone for us, as well as two ministers for hire who will perform weddings at a forest or a beach!” Klopper, who has organised six bridal fairs in other venues in the past, said a mall was the ideal location because of its natural foot traffic. “It’s like a massive pop-up shop for two days.” At 1pm today, shoppers will be treated to an hour-long fashion show featuring 40 male and female models showing off the latest trends in bridal, groom, mother-of-the-bride and flowergirl fashion. Klopper said collections from six designers will be shown, including two from Gauteng. The show will be held at the food court and is free. Entry to the bridal fair, which is on between 9am and 7pm today and 9am and 5pm tomorrow, is also free, as is entry into a competition in which an entire wedding worth more than R75000 can be won. — barbarah@dispatch.co.za