Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille said on Monday that the man who has claimed that she tried to bribe him is close to DA party members. She made the claim during a live debate with the party’s federal executive chairperson James Selfe on CapeTalk radio on Monday morning. De Lille has been accused of bribery and corruption after it emerged that she allegedly tried to solicit R5-million from businessman Anthony Faul in 2012. In exchange he said she would allegedly endorse his fire extinguisher product for the city’s informal settlements. Faul sent an affidavit to the party detailing the conversation with De Lille. In response the DA chose to lay a charge against her with the police. De Lille denied the allegations “with the contempt it deserves” and questioned the timing of the revelation. “Anthony Faul is a good friend of the DA‚” she said. “I will wait for my day in court and will give my full cooperation with the police. His affidavit will be tested in an open court of law.” She would not say if she knew Faul but reiterated that the party is trying several tactics to ”taint” her reputation. Meanwhile Selfe said Faul had sought legal opinion after De Lille spoke to him in 2012. “The man … went to his attorney and his attorney advised him that it was the mayor’s word against his and that it would likely be sensationalised‚” said Selfe. Faul then decided not to pursue action against her at the time. When the DA received his affidavit‚ Selfe said they were obliged to approach the police. The latest allegation against De Lille comes ahead of a motion of no confidence against her as mayor at a special council meeting on February 15. De Lille has been linked to alleged tender irregularities and maladministration. Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille says her lawyers will deal with a R5-million “bribery and corruption” complaint lodged against her by the Democratic Alliance (DA). Rapport [ https://www.netwerk24.com/Nuus/Politiek/da-kla-de-lille-by-polisie-aan-van-omkopery-20180203 ] newspaper reported on Sunday that the party had lodged a criminal complaint against De Lille in Cape Town on Friday.… February 4, 2018 Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille has found an unlikely ally in the ANC amid talk of a possible splinter group of coloured people. Sammy Claassen‚ the ANC South Coast regional spokesman‚ called on Facebook for his coloured comrades to rally behind De Lille as she faces the chop from… January 9, 2018 Western Cape DA leader Bonginkosi Madikizela has labelled Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille a conspiracy theorist amid her claims that he is earmarked to take her job. Reacting on Wednesday to a recommendation by the DA Cape Metro region that she should be sacked as mayor‚ De Lille said… January 11, 2018