The first day of the academic year at the Fort Hare East London campus was marred with disruptions this morning. 
When DispatchLive arrived there just after 8am, hundreds of students were gathered outside the campus. They were adhering to a call made by the SRC on the university’s facebook page last night that they should gather there in the morning and not attend classes.
This was after the SRC premier Kwanele Ntantala told hundreds of students who were gathered in front of the university’s premises that there would be no classes until the university had sorted out the issue of accommodation.
Ntantala told DispatchLive that about 400 registered students were still without accommodation.
“We started engaging with the management on the issue of accommodation since last year and we spent the whole of last week engaging with them and they have been promising to get back to us.
We cannot go to lectures while there are hundreds of deserving students that still do not have a place to sleep. We will carry on with the stayaway until all the students are accommodated,” he said.
Attempts to get hold of the university spokesman Khotso Moabi were unsuccessful as his phone went to voicemail.
He had not responded to questions sent to him via email at the time of publishing the story. More than 200 University of Fort Hare students who have not been allocated accommodation are camped outside the university’s East London campus this evening. Most of them are education students who were staying at the privately owned Union Arcade in the CBD last year. When DispatchLive arrived at the campus… January 19, 2018 University of Fort Hare students that were camping outside the East London campus this evening have invaded Union Arcade, the privately-owned residence they occupied last year. More than 200 students, mostly from the education faculty waited for many hours after registering, to be allocated accommodation. East London campus premier Kwanele… January 19, 2018 More than 300 University of Fort Hare students in East London embarked on a stay-away due to lack of student residence accommodation yesterday. The student representative council (SRC) yesterday even threatened to disrupt the university’s R30-million centenary celebrations if students were not accommodated soon. Campus secretary Somila Sphondo said: “We… February 16, 2016