Young and old Mdantsane residents have converged at the Mdantsane Indoor Sports Centre to voice their feelings on the 2016-17 annual report.  Three directorates – finance, infrastructure services and human settlements – will make presentations. Community members will then ask questions of clarity. Municipal public accounts committee chairwoman Zameka Kodwa Gajula said. The meeting nearly degenerated into chaos as community members wanted the meeting opened with a prayer while Kodwa Gajula wanted to introduce councillors. Another matter that held up the meeting was the absence of City manager Andile Sihlahla. Kodwa Gajula wanted to know from officials if they were told where Sihlahla is. Councillor Siyabonga Skolo said Sihlahla was supposed to be at the meeting. “If he has submitted an apology let’s hear it. If not then he should be called to come here now,” Skolo said to applause from the residents. Kodwa Gajula said Sihlahla told her yesterday he was out of town but would be back today. She took time to call Sihlahla. On her return she told the gathered people that Sihlahla’s phone was switched off. “What I will do now is to ask to meet councillors outside so we can have a way forward now that we know he is not coming,” she said. After the consultation with the councillors, Kodwa Gajula said: “We have decided to continue with the meeting. But we must register the disrespect show by the city manager to executive mayor Xola Pakati.” A former ANC branch secretary is demanding to know why a Buffalo City Metro councillor and three others have not been arrested after a case of assault was opened. This comes as tensions mount over the nomination of ANC ward candidates in BCM. Anele Pati, a former ward 23 branch… March 25, 2016 More than 100 disgruntled residents from Buffalo City Metro’s Ward 24 protested outside the East London City Hall yesterday demanding electricity connections and the removal of their ward councillor, Zameka Gajula. The residents – from Msintsi village and Mbekweni just outside Mdantsane – took their long-unattended grievances to BCM mayor… January 29, 2016 Eskom should take over electricity supply and billing throughout the metro was the call from Mdantsane residents at an imbizo the Mdantsane indoor sports centre yesterday. The event was organised by an organic network of “concerned residents”. About 200 people from around the township gathered at the arena to voice… May 9, 2017