Anger and despair rippled through Nkandla on Wednesday evening‚ hours before Jacob Zuma resigned as president of South Africa. Locals said they were upset with the ANC’s decision to recall Zuma – a decision that ultimately led to Zuma stepping down. Residents who spoke to Times Select were unanimous in rejecting the ANC decision to recall Zuma‚ saying he should have been allowed to finish his term. Many felt he could still do a lot for them in the less than two years before his term would have expired. Declaring his undying love for Zuma‚ Dalokwakhe Ntuli‚ who spoke from a tuckshop near Zuma’s homestead‚ said they were discussing Zuma’s recall with other elderly men during the day. The pensioner‚ who does not know his age‚ said: “We’re not happy about the decision to recall Msholozi (Zuma’s clan name). He has done a lot for us. We love Zuma. We were benefiting from him and you can’t remove a baby from the teats they were getting milk from.” For more on this story‚ visit Times Select. https://select.timeslive.co.za/news/2018-02-15-nkandla-residents-heart-broken-over-recall-decision/ Former presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma put the final nail in President Jacob Zuma's political coffin when she surprisingly joined calls for his removal at a heated ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting on Monday night. The ANC announced yesterday that it had recalled Zuma from office and wants its president,… February 14, 2018 The ANC has promised to explain to former president Jacob Zuma exactly what he did wrong. On Wednesday night‚ ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte addressed a media briefing about 15 minutes after Zuma had resigned as head of state‚ effective immediately‚ during a televised address. Duarte said members of the… February 15, 2018 Addressing the Constitutional Court in the Nkandla case, Advocate Jeremy Gauntlett memorably said it was, for his client, “a delicate time, in a dangerous year”. Whether Gauntlett was referring simply to the Nkandla matter or was speaking of the wider political context with municipal elections on the horizon, only he… September 24, 2016