Whittlesea police have opened an inquest docket after a 12-year-old boy from Sada location is believed to have drowned on Thursday. Police spokeswoman Captain Namhla Mdleleni said  Siyabonga Daba, 12, was last seen playing with his two friends on Thursday;  later the friends came  running home saying  that he had drowned. Speaking about the  incident, ward councillor Lulama Sokhuphe said the boys were playing in the township as they had not attended school on Thursday. “Schools were busy with athletics and the three boys decided to go for a swim without informing their parents,” she said. Sokhuphe, who has been given permission by the Daba family to speak on behalf of Siyabonga’s grandmother Nontsapho Daba, 75, said the family was traumatised by the situation. “Siyabonga Daba’s grandmother cannot believe what has happened to her grandson and, as the community, we are  trying all we can to assist her,” she said. She said Siyabonga had been living with his grandmother since his mother passed away more than five years ago. “The two depended on the old age grant they received from government. They had no one to look after them and this has really killed the old woman inside. I don’t know how she is going to cope with losing her only grandson,” said Sokhuphe. Sokhuphe said Daba was loved his grandmother and took care of her. “He was a great boy and we hoped that he would change the home situation and take care of his grandmother,” she said. lIn another case, Butterworth police spokesman Jackson Manatha said Ngqamakhwe police have opened an inquest docket following the drowning of a two-year-old toddler in Mpahleni village on Saturday. “It is alleged that at about 9am, the toddler followed dogs in the direction of the local river at Mpahleni village in Ngqamakhwe. “The mother of the toddler was busy cleaning her house when the deceased disappeared,” he said. Manatha said the deceased was found by her mother at the river. “We are appealing to parents to be vigilant and look after their children,” he said.