The downpour in the Western Cape on Tuesday came as a relief to many residents grappling with the severe drought. But the rain also claimed the lives of nine people around midnight. Provincial traffic chief Kenny Africa told TimesLIVE that there was flooding in parts of the Overberg region. “A driver and his four female passengers … were confronted with a mass of water all of a sudden. They got out of the vehicle and were washed away. All five drowned‚” Africa said. Around the same time in the Montagu area four people in one vehicle drove across a bridge and met a similar fate. Africa expressed his condolences to the families of the deceased and urged motorists to take care on the roads. In 2012 heavy rains wreaked havoc in the province. At the time homes were flooded‚ roofs were blown off and Eskom transformers were damaged by lightning. A Western Cape Emergency Medical Services worker from the town of Montagu was driving an ambulance to fetch patients in Ashton. It is believed that she was swept away by the Cogmanskloof River. Her body was never found. A South African National Defense Force soldier was one of 14 lives that were lost in deadly accidents across the province in what was described as a "horror" weekend on our provincial roads by authorities.  The unidentified soldier was killed when a SANDF vehicle he was travelling in overturned while towing another military vehicle.  Details of… May 7, 2016 THE stench of human waste was more effective than the GPS as I made my way to Khayelitsha in March. Despite tightly closed windows and air vents, the smell penetrated into the car and led me to the community I was visiting. I was here because I had accepted an… July 1, 2013 Administrative chaos at outlying Western Cape magistrate’s courts is leading to miscarriages of justice‚ say two high court judges. In a hard-hitting judgment highlighting the “endemic problem”‚ Acting Judge Mark Sher and Judge Robert Henney say the problem affects defendants who cannot afford lawyers. They are particularly critical of Caledon… August 22, 2017