IN HIS history of “The ANC in Exile”, Stephen Ellis suggested that the story of the ANC in government since 1994 inevitably caused people including himself, to ask new questions about its past “or to place new interpretations on events that may previously not have seemed significant”. It is a most apposite approach also for us in relation to Jacob Zuma, who has resigned as President of South Africa with less than two years of his second term to run. Given what we have experienced under a Zuma presidency, of both the ANC and SA, Ellis’s suggestion that we turn towards the past to better interpret the present day is helpful. Zuma, known familiarly as JZ, by his clan name Msholozi, or uBaba and uBaba ka Duduzane was born in rural KwaZulu-Natal on April 12 1942. Aged 17, he joined the ANC in 1959 and, in 1962, the armed wing Umkhonto weSizwe or MK. In 1963, at the age of 21, he was arrested at Zeerust while attempting to flee the country to link up with the ANC in Zambia, convicted of conspiring to overthrow the government, and sentenced to 10 years on Robben Island. In 1963, at the age of 21, he was arrested at Zeerust while attempting to flee the country to link up with the ANC in Zambia, convicted of conspiring to overthrow the government, and sentenced to 10 years on Robben Island. Released from the Island on December 29 1973, he returned to Nkandla focused on building non-racial worker structures, but later fled to Swaziland and Mozambique as security police closed in. There he worked with Soweto youths who had gone into voluntary exile and became the ANC’s chief representative in Maputo before being deployed in Lusaka in 1987 as head of the ANC’s security and intelligence department. As exiles returned home with the unbanning of the liberation movements in 1990, Zuma worked alongside Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki ahead of the 1994 democratic elections. He had a critical role in ending the internecine war between ANC comrades and Inkatha members in KwaZulu-Natal. But the ANC failed to win control of KZN in the elections and, instead of being sworn in as premier, JZ had to contend with being MEC for economic affairs and tourism. In 1994 he was also elected national and KZN chair of the ANC. In 1997 in Mafikeng, Zuma was elected national deputy president of the ANC. In 1999, when Thabo Mbeki succeeded Nelson Mandela as president of the republic, he became South Africa’s deputy president. Up to that point, despite some naysayers, Zuma seemed to have a shot at running for president. There had been hints of skeletons in the closet. He shrugged off allegations he was implicated in the death of Thami Zulu (Muziwakhe Ngwenya), who was detained in exile by the ANC by the Zuma-led security and intelligence department on claims he was a spy for the apartheid regime. JZ was also closely involved in Operation Vula, an off-the-books ANC operation mainly composed of comrades with KZN connections which aimed to directly overthrow the apartheid regime. JZ was also closely involved in Operation Vula, an off-the-books ANC operation mainly composed of comrades with KZN connections which aimed to directly overthrow the apartheid regime. But it was growing concern about Zuma’s personal ethics which would temporarily kybosh his ambitions. He was exposed as financially dependent on his “financial adviser” and former comrade Schabir Shaik. Shaik’s corruption trial heard evidence he had made 238 payments totalling R1.2-million to Zuma, who was also alleged to have asked arms supplier Thint’s chief executive Alain Thetard for a R500000 annual bribe to smooth the French company’s participation in a hotly contested arms deal. This caused Mbeki to fire Zuma in June 2005 on the basis of so-called prima facie evidence of wrongdoing. At the same time, Zuma faced a charge of rape brought by Fezekile Kuzwayo, also known as Khwezi. The court accepted Zuma’s evidence that he had had consensual (and unprotected) sex with Fezekile when she stayed over at his house in Forest Town, Johannesburg. Zuma bounced back in 2007, first toppling Mbeki as ANC president in a bruising battle at the party’s elective conference in Polokwane. Shortly afterwards, the National Prosecuting Authority served charges of fraud, corruption and money laundering on JZ, which were later ruled as unprocedural by Judge Chris Nicholson. Although the Supreme Court of Appeal had harsh criticism of Nicholson’s judgment, it provided an impetus for the ruling party to recall Mbeki as the country’s president and install caretaker Kgalema Motlanthe. Nicholson also provided a reason for the NPA to withdraw all charges in mid-2009. The ruling party immediately moved in parliament to elect Zuma as president, replacing Motlanthe. He was sworn in on May 9, 2009 in Pretoria. After finishing his first term as president, he was the ruling party’s only candidate in the 2014 general elections, In a 1986 interview about his formative years, Zuma related how, as a child, he had met a veteran of the 1906 Bambatha war of resistance against colonisation and how, as a teenager, he was impressed by stories of Kenya’s Mau Mau and Ghana’s independence movement. It is telling that Zuma could have so vividly appreciated major continental political developments at such a young age. The enduring and far-reaching influence of politics on Zuma is evident. Jacob was five years old when his policeman father died and left his three young sons in the care of their domestic worker mother. He watched his mother fend for him and his brothers. Later, he would also travel to the city to seek work. He was immersed in the politics and traditions of the ANC movement through political education classes from an early age. On Robben Island, he grabbed opportunities to participate in ANC structures, including chairing the political committee. But he did not receive a single visitor during his imprisonment – encouraging his mother to use her meagre resources to provide for his siblings rather than making the costly trip. Unsurprisingly, his ANC comrades, led by Nelson Mandela became his family. ‘Zuma is gone!’ Political parties‚ civil groups celebrate  Some of his closest, most enduring relationships have been forged in struggle, in closely-guarded secrets, in criminal acts in exile. But many in the democratic era have also forsaken the former bonds. In exile, Zuma and Mbeki were close – Zuma credited Mbeki with having taught him how to shoot a gun, according to writer Mark Gevisser – and their key leadership roles at SA’s turn to democracy ensured a close working relationship. However, factionalism was always a part of the comradely interplay, and this continued when the exiles returned home. Those sympathetic to Zuma would believe his dismissal by Mbeki was also fuelled by previous tensions between them, views on the armed struggle versus negotiation, including opposing views on Vula, even sentiments driven by supposed Xhosa versus Zulu identity. Zuma willy-nilly changed his Cabinet 10 times in total, without any regard for competence, knowledge, experience, global issues or national interest.  A critical policy change was to radically improve access to anti-retrovirals for people living with HIV/Aids. This resulted in a huge drop in mortality due to HIV/Aids. Mbeki may have been committed to the African Renaissance but Zuma was a strong proponent of “the African way”, especially in problem-solving on the continent, even while he abhorred Africans “who become too clever” or kleva blacks. Mbeki had mostly eschewed tradition in the face of rational argument. Msholozi made no bones about his affinity with tradition, not only the harmless cultural accoutrements of being Zulu, but also adopting political positions which were antithetical to a progressive dispensation. He was strident in a 2006 Heritage Day speech about what would happen were a gay man to stand in front of him. “I would knock him out.” Jacob Zuma: from teenage freedom fighter to ANC strongman  In sync with fundamentalist Christians, JZ supported corporal punishment as a means of parents disciplining their children, even if the courts have held it to be unconstitutional. Conversely, he also pointed to how Christianity has usurped traditional ways of life in the country. He espoused an “olden days” view of women, where they knew their lesser value and servile place in relation to men. On rampant teenage pregnancy, Zuma intoned that young mothers must be put on Robben Island to learn how to look after their children (presumably as he had learnt about family on the island). Later he asserted “kids are important … because they give extra training to a woman, to be a mother”. On Zimbabwe there was no noticeable policy change. Zuma agreed the ANC in government would not abandon Mugabe – perhaps because to do so would set a precedent that a despotic, corrupt president could be ousted and face the wrath of his people afterwards. Zuma’s most politically and economically audacious move was firing Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister in December 2015 because he refused to go along with the state capture cabal’s plans. Replacing Nene with backbencher David van Rooyen was a step too far and he was persuaded to bring back Pravin Gordhan – ironically, also rooted in KZN movement politics – to lead the Treasury. Audacity was needed, however, because to achieve his ambition of taking over the country in toto, he and his proxies had to control every state-owned company and agency, and secure all state income streams for himself, his relatives and the Guptas. Zuma had met Ajay, Atul and Rajesh Gupta sometime around 2006. The family had relocated from India to SA in the mid-1990s in pursuit of a fresh economic windfall. It is not clear who targeted whom but soon Zuma, through his wife, Bongi Ngema-Zuma, his children Duduzane and Duduzile and other relatives, was in serious business with the Guptas. ‘We are relieved and resentful that Zuma resigned’ – Corruption Watch  The allocation of state resources for a Gupta family wedding at Sun City, including giving permission for a private charter jet to land at Waterkloof air-force base, was only the most visible sign of state capture. Literally billions of rands have been creamed off the business of SOEs like Transnet, Prasa and Eskom through corrupt deals with Gupta-linked companies which were facilitated either directly by Zuma or through the mere mention of uBaba’s name. Since the December election of Cyril Ramaphosa as president of the ANC, Zuma has suffered the ignominy of being a lame duck president of the republic. It was only a matter of time before he stepped down as the country’s leader.