Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe believes he got invaluable information from the community consultation session in King William’s Town yesterday that will help in drafting the new mining charter. Mantashe spent hours locked in a meeting with residents and businesses. Mantashe has embarked on a nationwide campaign to get input from communities on what should be included in the mining charter. Mantashe said the charter was an instrument for transformation in the industry, which should set targets and ways of doing things. Asked how he was going to ensure the implementation of the charter, Mantashe said: “The implementation is a question of capacity of your team and the willingness to work. “What is entailed in the charter will not come automatically, it will require us to follow it through and
engage. “Our team in the department [need] to be more aggressive and forceful in terms of monitoring complaince.” He said this while addressing journalists on the sidelines of the consultation session. He said there were no problems between his department and the Chamber of Mines. “We are talking to each other now and we have discovered we agree on the majority of issues. “When you engage each other, you are able to point where you don’t agree and work on the disagreements,” Mantashe said. He said yesterday’s meeting had been fruitful, saying 32 speakers gave input. “I am very happy with the level of engagements. The biggest problem is a problem I pick up in all the areas. “Companies don’t do what they are supposed to do in terms of communicating with communities, where they are mining,” Mantashe said. Mining Affected Communities spokesman Ayanda Kota, of Grahamstown, was not pleased with the beneficiaries in the mining sector. “The charter aims to create tenderpreneurs and we are not happy with that,” Kota said. “We would be happy if communities benefited and benefiting was done through cooperatives.” Grahamstown is known for its kaoline. Kota said trucks went to the small town and left loaded with kaoline. “But we don’t know who benefits from that.” – zolilem@dispatch.co.za