A Mdantsane man is up in arms over Buffalo City Metro’s refusal to give him the title deed to a piece of land he purchased more than a decade ago. Thina Bloro, 49, says in 2003 he paid R2000 to the municipality for a 405m² site in the township’s Zone 1 on which he planned to build a house for his family. However, his dreams have been dashed as the municipality has dragged its heels transferring the land into his name. “I applied for a residential site in Mdantsane. “I wanted to build a house because I was still living at my uncle’s house in NU3, and I wanted to have my own place.” His application was successful and Bloro was issued with a deed of sale in September that year. “I followed all the correct processes and I received correspondence at the time that my application was being handled at the various municipal departments.” “An advert was issued in the Daily Dispatch, and there was no objection to me buying the land within the seven-day period given during which to lodge objections.” Fast-forward to 15 years later and the site remains empty while Bloro continues to fight with the municipality for the ownership papers. He said he was informed this year that the municipality had made a mistake with the sale. “A few weeks ago I was told that this is no longer my site. They said they made a mistake. On April 28 I went there again and I was told that both people dealing with my matter were off sick,” he said. “The one person at the sales department just told me that he is working under pressure and I can report him if I want to. “I really feel let down. I want to build a house while I still can afford to but the municipality does not want me to.” Speaking to the Daily Dispatch last week, an irate Bloro said he has been sent from pillar to post. “I am tired of the incompetence in this municipality. “I just want the land I paid for. I have the deed of sale.” BCM spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya said the issue of the sale of the land had to be resolved by the council. “Council had resolved to sell the piece of land in question at Mdantsane Unit 1 in 1998. “A subsequent sale was later offered to Mr Bloro in 2001, after the original owner had defaulted on the payment. Even though the sale was administratively auctioned, the manner in which the system recognised it at that time created the current problem now. “We are busy preparing a report to be brought to council to ratify the substitution of the property to Mr Bloro, to facilitate transfer of the property into his name,” Ngwenya said. “It has taken so long, firstly because it was done incorrectly. “The aim was to get a legal opinion so that we could possibly fast-track the process but … we need to do things right.”