Two Walter Sisulu University students were admitted at Mthatha Regional Hospital on Thursday night after allegedly being assaulted by Fidelity security guards in two separate incidents on the Mthatha campus. Second-year BCom economics student at the Nelson Mandela Drive campus Thobekile Tshesi sustained injuries after he was beaten up by two security guards with batons for “noise making”. Footage of the incident was captured on cellphone. The second alleged incident occurred a few hours later at the Zamukulungisa site. Third-year BEd student Samkelo Madyibi was allegedly shot with rubber bullets for vouching for a student who had forgotten his student card. Several attempts to source comment from Fidelity proved fruitless as the company’s phone rang unanswered yesterday. The video of Tshesi’s assault has gone viral. Two security guards are seen standing next to him. They try to forcefully remove him before assaulting him with batons. He manages to punch the one guard four times in the 31-second clip. Speaking from his hospital bed yesterday, Tshesi said his only sin was to talk to a fellow student at the library. “One of the security guards came to tell me I was making a noise. Before he left, a second one came and started assaulting me.” Tshesi had not been discharged from hospital at the time of writing yesterday. Madyibi visited the Zamukulungisa site for a choir rehearsal when he was shot with rubber bullets. He was also still in hospital at the time of writing. He said the incident occurred after he told the security guards that he knew a student who had been walking in front of him. The student did not have his student card with him. Madyibi said he was angry with what had happened to him and wanted the university to deal with the matter. The student representative council has called for the immediate termination of Fidelity’s contract. University spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo condemned the Tshesi assault. Commenting on Madyibi case, Tukwayo said they had been told the security guards had been defending themselves against students forcing their way onto the premises with alcohol. — sinom@dispatch.co.za