After 37 years of unbroken police service, one of the Eastern Cape’s most senior police officers, Major General Zamuthango Mki, 60, retired last month. Mki, who served in a number of senior positions across the country, called it quits while he was the Eastern Cape head of management intervention, a unit within the police services. He told the Daily Dispatch that his long service with the police was prolonged by discipline, loyalty and trustworthiness. “First, a police officer needs to have clean hands, be loyal, be trusted and be honest. “If police officers all had those values, we would be trusted by the community we serve,” said Mki. He joined the police in 1981 and trained at Mthatha police college and went to work at Ngangelizwe police station before he was sent to Groblersdal where he stayed for 10 weeks, receiving training in explosives. After that, he returned to Mthatha to work at the security unit. “I worked around a number of police stations in the former Transkei homeland and in 2000 I went to the Northern Cape where I worked as an inspectorate head in Kimberley,” he said. In between his hard work during those years, he managed to get his LLB degree from then University of the Transkei [now Walter Sisulu University Mthatha campus]. “We were told that when you want to see yourself being promoted to a senior position, you need to study and obtain degrees and that is what I did,” he said. After a few years in Kimberley, he returned to the province and went to Port Elizabeth where he became the area’s deputy commissioner. “After the post of area commissioner was dissolved I went to work in Uitenhage as a station commander and later cluster commander, looking after seven police stations,” he said. In 2012, he was promoted to major-general and moved to be the Eastern Cape’s then police commissioner Lieutenant-General Celiwe Binta’s deputy. The highlight of his career was when he saved the life of a woman who had been raped on a lonely roadside by a motorist near Ngcobo. “I was off-duty at the time and I saw the incident and I saved the woman and the suspect was arrested. He later shot and killed himself,” he said. Mki was also instrumental is curbing high vehicle theft in Uitenhage while a commander there. “VW vehicles were hijacked from people and we managed to curb that and some of the vehicles were recovered in the Transkei and in Johannesburg and many suspects were arrested. “I highlight this case because it was the work of a syndicate that was not easy to crack,” he said. Once a shepherd on the hills of Manqulo village, he matriculated from Cunningham High school in Toleni. Although he is going back home now, he said it was not to herd cattle again but to pursue his law interests. “I did the degree, and now I want to use it to look for work,” he said with a chuckle. Speaking of Mki, incumbent provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshingwa said he was not an ordinary person. “He constantly portrayed a professional and positive attitude. This organisation benefited a lot from him,” said Ntshingwa.