Traditional leaders and prominent members of society were awarded with honorary doctorates by the Trinity International Bible University in partnership with the Christian Leadership Academy in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. The recipients included King Zwelonke Sigcawu of the AmaXhosa kingdom, King Dalimvula Matanzima of the Western Tembus, King Peter Cardi of the Khoisan in Cape Town and labour movement icon Zwelinzima Vavi. They were all bestowed with honorary doctorates of philosophy in leadership and governance by the internationally accredited church, which is also affiliated to New World Mission Dunamis International University. The secretary of the AmaTshawe royal family – which is a combination of the AmaRharhabe and AmaXhosa kingdoms – Chief Mthuthuzeli Makinana, who spoke on behalf of the traditional leaders, said they were honoured to be acknowledged for the work they were doing for the less privileged in society. “The relationship between religious institutions and traditional leaders started years ago during a time when the first mission station, Gwali at Thyume Valley, was on land given to missionaries in 1823 by Chief Tyali of the Rharhabe kingdom, followed by the Mount Coke mission given to missionaries by Chief Ndlambe,” he said. “In 1841, the Lovedale College of Education [also a mission station] was established. This is where African leaders such as Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Sir Seretse Kama of Botswana, Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe and Nelson Mandela of South Africa studied,” he added. Makinana said the honour given to the various traditional heads would be used to inspire and motivate the younger generation to use education as a tool to change the lives of people around them for the better. Chief registrar Professor Kobus Louw said the ceremony was part of the mid-year graduation for the internationally accredited institution. “The ceremony was specifically scheduled for students who graduate mid-year, ordaining clergy, and the conferring of honorary degrees to dignitaries who were nominated by their church or community. “The nominations were for exceptional work done in the field of social and community development. “This graduation marks the beginning of a relationship between the Council of Churches of South Africa International [COCSAI] and the Interdenominational Church Association which will work together to enhance the relationship between the different church denominations and communities in South Africa.” — mbalit@dispatch.co.za