President Cyril Ramaphosa’s family are preparing a dowry ceremony this weekend for his son Andile‚ who has chosen a bride with political connections – and two degrees! The Sowetan newspaper reported on Friday that an entourage representing Andile was expected in Kampala‚ the capital of Uganda‚ today ahead of the traditional negotiations tomorrow. Bridget Birungi Rwakairu is Andile’s fiancee. She is a niece to former Uganda Prime Minister and presidential candidate John Patrick Amama Mbabazi. According to the Nairobi News (https://nairobinews.nation.co.ke/life/south-africa-president-uganda-sons-dowry/) the 37-year-old holds a post-graduate degree in Business Administration (MBA) from Beijing University of Science and Technology. She also holds a BSC Environmental Engineering from Beijing Jiatong University. Newspapers in Uganda are reporting that the bride’s family told a press briefing this week that the bride price will include 100 cattle. The ceremony will be held at Kololo‚ a Kampala surburb‚ hosted by Mbabazi. He told Uganda’s New Vision media outlet (https://www.newvision.co.ug/new_vision/news/1477790/enjoying-life-politics-mbabazi) that is working with an international organisation to help combat the drug trade‚ while rearing goats. South Africa’s first family mostly keep a low profile‚ so little is known about Andile Ramaphosa‚ except that he is listed as managing director of a company called Blue Crane Capital and believed to have finance-related degrees from universities in Asia and the USA. His brother Tumelo‚ though‚ is active on Instagram‚ which has got women hot under the collar‚ according to Sunday World‚ which recently reported that Tumelo has been unofficially crowned the new national bae. Based on his Instagram profile‚ the US-based Tumelo is a gym fanatic with rugby player thighs and body builder biceps to show for it‚ said Sunday World‚ adding: “The 30-year-old is a man’s man – not afraid to pet tigers and use a sniper gun – although he lives to protect animals from being shot. He also has a crazy obsession with wolves. . .”. Gains going up on a Saturday night getting ready for the GUNSHOW #GAINZTRAIN #Gri A post shared by  The Alpha Wolf (@ramaphosatumelo) on Oct 9, 2016 at 4:12pm PDT  A post shared by The Alpha Wolf (@ramaphosatumelo) on Jul 12, 2016 at 2:14am PDT  – TimesLIVE