After three years of bruising court battles and family feuding over who should sit in jailed AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo’s throne, the royal fight is finally over. Dalindyebo’s son Azenathi, who was appointed as the acting king, and the jailed monarch’s younger brother, Prince Mankunku, smoked the peace pipe on Sunday. Both Azenathi and Mankunku said it was the work of God and the ancestors that saw the two end their bickering and unite. “I’m happy we’ve settled our differences. We will work together to unite our family and the kingdom. I know my father must be proud of everything I’ve done so far. “I am very happy that we are reunited. It will be for my uncle and me to take this reconciliation and peace further to unite all AmaDlomo and the entire nation. “He was been out in the cold, in the wilderness, and now my uncle is back and we are all happy about that. “We have slaughtered the fattest sheep to welcome him back home,” said an emotional Azenathi. Mankunku said just like a prodigal son, he had returned home. “I decided to come back home and support my nephew as he has won the succession battle. Fighting among each other is not helping the family or the nation. “If we have the interest of the nation at heart, we will see the reconciliation as a very good move. “I was just like a prodigal son with my nephew, King Zanesizwe, conducting a number of rituals for me, like slaughtering a goat, as part of the cultural practices called ukuhlwanjwa (cultural cleansing ceremony and intimate family ritual) this past week Friday and Saturday. “Early in the morning, I went to the family animal kraal and evoked the spirit of the ancestors, calling for forgiveness and for guidance towards everlasting peace and unity. “King Azenathi really welcomed me,” said Mankunku. “I came back to ask for forgiveness and they granted me that. I will ask for forgiveness from the whole kingdom for the purpose of rebuilding our home.” Mankunku and Buyelekhaya’s relationship has been on the rocks for years – to such an extent that he was banished from Bumbane Great Place. In 2012, Mankunku and Buyelekhaya’s wife, Queen Noluntu, joined a group of the AmaDlomo royal family which included Nkosi Mandla Mandela, Nkosi Thanduxolo Mtirara and his younger brother, Nkosi Daludumo Mtirara, who were campaigning for the dethronement and incarceration of the king. They canvassed for Mankunku to ascend to the throne in the absence of Dalindyebo saying that was in line with the custom of AmaDlomo, where a younger brother should act in the absence of his brother. The infighting intensified and further divided the AmaDlomo clan when Dalindyebo was sentenced to 12 years in jail in 2015 with three factions emerging. The third group supported the king’s wife, Queen Nokwanda, for the throne. The Grahamstown High Court ruled in favour of Azenathi. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za