While more patients have complained about appalling treatment from doctors and nurses at the Empilweni Health Centre in East London’s Gompo, department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo claimed the facility was receiving glowing reviews from patients. When asked for comment regarding complaints over the centre’s alleged negligence, Kupelo said: “Contrary to that view, we have been receiving more compliments in our suggestion box.” The centre has repeatedly received criticism on its poor treatment and attitude towards patients. Mpho Roberts, six, died at the clinic this month after security guards allegedly refused to allow the boy’s brother to rush him to the emergency unit. This week, more patients said they were being ill-treated. Parkridge resident Sebastian Ogle said his hand became septic and infected after he was allegedly poorly stitched at the clinic last Saturday. He said his bruised hand began bleeding through the stitches a day after he received them. “When I left the clinic in severe pain, I wasn’t given any medication. I went back Sunday and still received no help,” Ogle said. He said he went back to the clinic on Monday, when he was told his hand became septic. “Even after that they didn’t give me any medication. They treat us like we are nobodies at the place and they don’t prioritise our health at all,” he said. Vergenoeg resident Elmonique Mintoor said she was livid over the way she and other patients were treated at the clinic. Mintoor said when she first arrived at the clinic on Saturday evening and asked for a wheelchair for her broken foot, an allegedly drunk porter shoved one under her. “It’s really hectic. We are forced to go to Empilweni but when we get there the staff tells us they are doing us a favour,” she said. She said the cast she got was so tight that blood stopped flowing to her foot. “I went back to the clinic and they admitted that they had inserted the first cast wrongly. “When we voiced our concerns on Sunday they called the police on us, saying we are a nuisance to them. We’ve reported the matter to the health department endlessly but nothing [has] changed,” she said. Kupelo said patients were at liberty to call the health department’s 24-hour call centre [080-003-2364]. “They can also use the suggestion box and talk to the facility’s manager.” – nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za