The project, which was started in 2008 in Mdantsane’s NU9, sees Rexana teach more than 25 children, from the age of seven, the art of hip-hop and break-dancing. He offers the weekly dance classes for free in an old building in the area. “Growing up, most of my friends were involved with crime and drugs and I knew I had to do something to motivate those younger than me not to follow the same trend,” said the 31-year-old dancer and model. “I have watched my friends become drug addicts. I’ve been robbed at gunpoint twice and seen others get mugged and stabbed on the street. I’ve even watched one of my closest friends get arrested for stealing.” Rexana said that dance was always his escape as he was forced to grapple with the harsh realities of his area from a young age. The project, which represents a movement against drugs, is Rexana’s way of giving back to his community and teaches youngsters that there is more to life. “It’s not just about saying no to drugs or crime. It’s about showing them that they can achieve great things and teaching them to treat each other with kindness and respect,” he said. While Rexana is the group’s main instructor, he welcomes and invites other dance teachers to teach the children various styles. CyfaDance was recently registered as a non-profit organisation and Rexana has expanded his project to run in the Parkside community, teaching classes at John Bisseker High School. Last year, Rexana also initiated the project in Soweto, Johannesburg and visits as often as he can to teach. “I’ve appointed someone to keep the project going in Soweto, but whenever I have some extra money I try to travel there. I hope that we will get some sponsors soon so I can do more for these kids.” Although many of the youngsters have only been dancing for a short while, the group had learned some unique routines and daring stunts. The young dancers have also seen their talents take them to the final round of the annual PNA Ultimate Performer for the last two years running. They have also danced for various events around the city such as the Buffalo City Summer Carnival. “I’m passionate about what I do and I love spending time with these kids. “I want them to believe in themselves and to believe in their dreams,” Rexana said.