Nearly seven years after being unveiled internationally, Mercedes-Benz Trucks has introduced its latest generation Actros to the local market. The long-haul truck, fitted with new technology engines – and which is manufactured in East London – was launched at a glitzy ceremony in the Western Cape near George on Monday evening. Mercedes-Benz Trucks media specialist Sibusiso Mkwanazi said the Actros had been manufactured at the local plant since 1998, and over 25000 units had been produced. The new Actros is expected to be a major contributor to the brand’s sales figures in the region which, along with its Fuso, totalled more than 35000 vehicles in 2017. Since the launch of the first Actros in 1996, the region has accounted for more than 10% of global sales for the model. Mkwanazi said: “The commercial vehicle was tested under extreme local conditions with full loads and returned a fuel saving of 6% in South Africa. It has been tested on more than 16 million test kilometres in South Africa during development at the East London plant’s engine durability test department, in addition to more than 60million test kilometres globally to reaffirm it’s reliability.” He added: “In order to meet the high requirements set out by Mercedes-Benz Trucks in terms of reliability and market suitability, extensive technical and product modifications have been made to the European Actros to ensure that the new truck is more than capable of living up to the brand’s reputation.” In Europe there is also an electric variant of the Actros – the eActros and Urban eTruck – but it will be some time before these are available locally. According to Mkwanazi South Africa lacked the infrastructure required to support this type of commercial vehicle. He said: “The technology is available and the electric trucks could be manufactured in South Africa, but the issue here is infrastructure. There is not enough infrastructure to sustain the electric vehicles and that is what needs to be addressed before we can bring electric vehicles. “In Europe, when the drivers deliver goods – as they are offloading – they are also busy charging,” he said. Mkwanazi said although electric trucks could be charged using batteries, a fully-charged battery could only take a truck from between 150 to 200km. The model will be available with in-line six-cylinder engines in four variants – with output ranging from 240kW (326hp) to 460kW (625hp), as well as the Mercedes Powershift 3 automated transmission. Additional features include reinforced frames, robust planetary axles, optimised filter and cooling systems, plus the latest generation safety and assistance systems, such as Active Brake Assist (ABA4) or adaptive cruise control. In the cab, fleet operators can choose among as many as 22 variants of comfort, functionality and equipment. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za, with additional reporting from Businesslive.co.za