“Water is the new gold. Without it we are nothing.” This is how Cambridge High School head girl Vanessa Annan, 17, began presenting her award-winning science project at the South African Institute of Civil Engineering (Saice) conference in Midrand last weekend. Vanessa was one of five students chosen from across South Africa who had the opportunity to present at the conference. Her project, the Aqua Powerhouse, won a gold medal at last year’s International Eskom Science Expo as well as third place in the Water Engineering category. The invention is a mobile, solar-powered water purifying station. “Last year I realised how valuable water is and how many rural communities have access to it, but have no way of purifying it for drinking purposes,” said Vanessa. “The idea behind the Aqua Powerhouse is that it could be used to improve communities in a multitude of ways, because it does more than just purify water.” The device also provides households with a renewable source of energy that can be used to power lights. “It was really interesting to engage with professionals who understood the concepts of my project and could give me advice,” said Vanessa. The young science enthusiast has her heart set on studying medicine at Stellenbosch University, but hopes that industry professionals may be interested in taking her project further and mass-producing it for rural communities around the country. As a testament to Vanessa’s co-curricular and academic achievements, she was also recently chosen as one of the top 100 students in Africa to attend the Young African Scholars programme in Rwanda later this year. The programme is led by Yale University lecturers and students, and will see pupils from all over Africa engage in various discussions and mentorship sessions. The requirements for the programme included obtaining an average of at least 80% throughout her high school career. “I believe that, as the youth, we have the tools and ability to change people’s lives and I hope to make a difference in our country one day,” said Vanessa, who is passionate about improving the lives of others. “I never dreamt that my achievements would open so many doors, especially this one. “I’m really excited to meet and engage with people my age that are as passionate about Africa as I am.” Cambridge’s deputy principal, Lizelle Prinsloo, said Vanessa’s achievements were outstanding and made her school and city proud. — madeleinec@dispatch.co.za