The old hostel at Nelson Mandela’s alma mater school, Healdtown Comprehensive High School in Fort Beaufort that was burnt down during the 1976 Soweto student uprising, has finally been restored to its former glory. The refurbishment of the hostel to the tune of R46-million was completed last month and consists of 195 beds, a museum, kitchen, laundry room and an entertainment lounge area. The renovations formed part the historical schools restoration project (HSRP), a national project that aims to revitalise the rich heritage of historical schools and transform them into sustainable and aspirational African institutions of educational and cultural excellence. Established in 1855, Healdtown has produced world- class leaders including Mandela, Govan Mbeki, Robert Sobukwe, Raymond Mhlaba and former Silas Nkanunu. According to the HSRP, the hostels at the school along with 14 classrooms were destroyed in a fire when Healdtown became one of the schools outside Soweto, to join the 1976 student uprising . The students were rebelling against the use of Afrikaans as the medium of instruction. In 1994, shortly after the country’s first democratic elections, the school was reopened and the first phase of educational renewal and the restoration of buildings began, with the establishment of a board of trustees and the support of the Independent Development Trust (IDT). Over the years some of the buildings destroyed were restored, except for the hostel. A few years ago under the HSRP, the SA Council of Churches and Eastern Cape education department formed a partnership to restore and resurrect more than 20 historical schools. Other historical schools to be revived include Clarkebury in Ngcobo, St John’s College in Mthatha and Mt Arthur in Cacadu (formerly Lady Frere). Education department infrastructure director Tsepo Pefole said the renovations began last year, while the installation of a high-security perimeter fence commenced in 2016. The water supply and sewerage treatment were installed this year. “The renovations entailed the restoration of a double-storey hostel, installation of a laundry, a janitor’s accommodation, water and sanitation as well as beautification,” Pefole said. “The section that was occupied by Nelson Mandela has been specially demarcated as a museum facility. Eastern Cape Council of Churches CEO and the convener of HSRP, Reverend Lulama Ntshingwa, said he was excited about the renovated hostel as it was a major boost for the school. “Restoration of Healdtown and other historical schools was of national importance. “The school will go back to its former glory of being an institution that produces great leaders. “It also means that the community will not need transport and it will attract new learners,” Ntshingwa said. The hostel is expected to start accommodating pupils in July. – arethal@dispatch.co.za