Former first lady of the United States Michelle Obama has been sharing moments from her upcoming memoir‚ Becoming‚ on her social media platforms ahead of the book’s release in November this year. On Instagram Michelle posted a picture of herself at Princeton in the early 1980s. She said she had never stood out in a crowd or classroom because of the colour of her skin. “I know that being a first-generation college student can be scary‚ because it was scary for me. I was black and from a working-class neighborhood in Chicago‚ while Princeton’s student body was generally white and well-to-do.” She said it was through the help of a mentor and friends that she found the confidence to be herself. This is me at Princeton in the early 1980s. I know that being a first-generation college student can be scary, because it was scary for me. I was black and from a working-class neighborhood in Chicago, while Princeton’s student body was generally white and well-to-do. I’d never stood out in a crowd or a classroom because of the color of my skin before. But I found close friends and a mentor who gave me the confidence to be myself. Going to college is hard work, but every day I meet people whose lives have been profoundly changed by education, just as mine was. My advice to students is to be brave and stay with it. Congratulations to the Class of 2018! #ReachHigher A post shared by  Michelle Obama (@michelleobama) on May 22, 2018 at 2:09pm PDT  “I’d never stood out in a crowd or a classroom because of the color of my skin before. But I found close friends and a mentor who gave me the confidence to be myself. Going to college is hard work‚ but every day I meet people whose lives have been profoundly changed by education‚ just as mine was” On the official site for the book‚ Michelle describes her story as a “work of deep reflection” and said it is filled with stories that have shaped her. Over the next few days, I’ll be sharing some photos and memories from my book, BECOMING. My father, Fraser, taught me to work hard, laugh often, and keep my word. My mother, Marian, showed me how to think for myself and to use my voice. Together, in our cramped apartment on the South Side of Chicago, my family helped me see the value in our story, in my story, and in the larger story of our country. A post shared by  Michelle Obama (@michelleobama) on May 22, 2018 at 6:46am PDT  “Warm‚ wise‚ and revelatory‚ Becoming is the deeply personal reckoning of a woman of soul and substance who has steadily defied expectations—and whose story inspires us to do the same‚” is a description on the site. Bring on November. We are ready.