The hawks have swooped on Dr Siphokazi Sokupa, who was caught allegedly issuing fake sick notes to an undercover police officer – twice without examining him. The elite crime-busting unit pounced on the notorious doctor, 67, and her assistant Cwaita Mngqibisa, 37, at the doctor’s practice in East London yesterday morning. About eight patients waiting to see her watched in disbelief as the two were led to a Hawk’s vehicle outside. They were not handcuffed as they did not resist arrest. Sokupa was heard talking to some of her patients who were turned away, telling them to stay put as she would be back soon. “This is nothing much, don’t worry. I’ll be back soon,” she said to an elderly woman. Yesterday’s arrest was a culmination of an undercover sting operation where Sokupa allegedly dished out sick notes to a healthy undercover Hawks officer without examining him. The officer visited Sokupa’s rooms last week on Thursday and again on Tuesday. On both occasions, she allegedly issued a fraudulent medical certificate. Eastern Cape Hawks spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni said Sokupa and Mngqibisa were accused of issuing post-dated and backdated fraudulent sick certificates. A probe commenced earlier this month after authorities were alerted to the pair’s alleged misconduct. “Dr Sokupa allegedly issued sick certificates to an undercover agent with dates of his choice and without subjecting him to any medical examination,” Feni said. The two appeared in the East London Magistrate’s Court shortly after their arrest. Magistrate Rochelle Sam released them on warning and postponed the matter to June 19. When the Dispatch drove past the premises at 3.30pm it was closed. Eastern Cape Hawks acting head Major-General Zintle Mnonopi said they were committed to eradicating all cases of fraud in the province. This is not Sokupa’s first brush with the law. She was arrested for the same offence before. In 2010 the Dispatch exposed how the North End-based doctor and two other doctors were issuing alleged fraudulent notes. At the time, the health industry watchdog, the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA), said it was investigating the matter. However, the outcome of that investigation is still unknown. HPCSA communications manager Priscilla Sekhonyana asked for questions to be e-mailed to her. She acknowledged receiving the detailed questions as to the status of the 2010 HPCSA investigation and what the council was doing to curb fraudulent issuing of medical certificates more generally. She promised to reply after “10 minutes” but her phone rang unanswered and she had not responded to follow-up messages by deadline yesterday. lDuring the Dispatch investigation in 2010 – and again in 2013 – Sokupa issued sick notes to our undercover reporters without even seeing them. On one occasion an undercover reporter was issued with a backdated sick note, which Sokupa gave after pleading with the reporter not to report her unscrupulous conduct to the media. However, the 2010 cases against Sokupa were dismissed under mysterious circumstances. Police and the National Prosecuting Authority could not say why she had walked scot-free. — bhongoj@tisoblackstar.co.za 