“You are doing this to me yourself. You don’t even hire tsotsis. I don’t even know why I married you, you witch.” These were among the last words uttered by former social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi’s chief of staff, Sakhekile Ndudula, as he lay dying after being hit by a hail of bullets in his home in Cambridge, East London on September 14 2016. Or at least, so says state witness Noligwa Mkungeka, 32, who was testifying in the East London High Court yesterday in the murder trial of Ndudula’s wife Bulelwa Ndudula, 46. Mkungeka, 32, who was renting a back room in the Ndudula household, described hearing the couple having an early morning verbal and physical confrontation. Mkungeka told Judge Igna Stretch that the couple had “a violent fight” just before 7am, and that at 6am she heard them arguing loudly about Ndudula’s alleged girlfriends. Moments later she heard running water from the couple’s bathroom and someone whistling. “Not long after, I heard them arguing in [loud] voices. “She was shouting at him saying she was not pleased that he was coming from his girlfriends. I heard the husband loudly saying, ‘Are we going to continue arguing about this thing of girlfriends every day?’ Then there was a noise, as if furniture was being moved. “I think they were engaged in a physical fight because I heard her asking, ‘Why are you assaulting me?’ I also heard him saying ‘Are you fighting back now?’” Mkungeka told court. A few minutes later, she heard a number of “loud bangs, more than two or three”, which she initially thought was “a headboard banging on the wall inside their room”. It was not the first time she had overheard the couple in a verbal and physical fight, she said. After the “bangs” she heard Ndudula saying the words about the tsotsis and the witch. Then it was quiet, except for the “click clack” noise of high heels on wooden flooring. “Just a few seconds later, I heard Mr Ndudula calling out my name, saying ‘Where are the people? Noligwa, please help me and call people!” Mkungeka said she did not respond as she “respected” the couple and did not want to interfere in their domestic affairs. She said Bulelwa then called her name, but in a soft voice, not the voice she heard during the fight. “I did not respond even this time, but decided to call a friend [Vuyiseka “VJ” Ngoqo] staying nearby, telling her that the two were fighting again and that I wanted her to come so that we could both go inside the house. “I later heard a garage door closing, with the husband saying, ‘Why are you closing it? Please take me to my car so I can go to hospital.’” When Ngoqo arrived, she said they went through the double garage and saw Bulelwa standing on the stairs. They asked if she was okay. “She told us that they have shot my husband. Mr Ndudula was lying on his stomach on the garage floor, with blood on his back.” Mkungeka and Ngoqo asked Bulelwa if she had called the police or an ambulance, and she replied that she had called “Dabs”, her paternal aunt. Mkungeka said they had to ask Bulelwa twice to fetch the keys of the couple’s Mercedes-Benz. She did not appear to be in a panic. The women battled to load the injured husband, who still had a pulse at the time, into the car and only managed with the help of a security guard. “The wife was nowhere to be seen.” Ngoqo and the wife then drove him to hospital, where he later died. When defence advocate Mike Maseti began his cross-examination, he put it to Mkungeka that she had given two very different statements to the police – one on the day and another the next day. She said she had initially lied about what she heard and what transpired because she did not want to be involved. “I lied in the first statement and did not give all the facts at my disposal because I did not want to be involved, but later I decided to tell the whole truth.” Maseti accused her of submitting a “lying, deceitful and contradictory statement” to the police and pointed out a number of contradictions and discrepancies in her two statements. He said it would be the defence’s case that there was never a quarrel that morning, that the widow did assist in carrying the husband to the car, and that she was the one who summoned the security firm, police and ambulance. Mkungeka denied this as “not true”. Maseti also played the court a DVD recording of voice messages sent out “on Facebook” by Ngoqo, which apparently contradicts Mkungeka’s testimony. The trial continues today. —asandan@dispatch.co.za