Fadlu Davids can round off a remarkable first full season as head coach at Maritzburg United by leading the unfancied KwaZulu-Natal club to a first-ever trophy in the Nedbank Cup final against Free State Stars in Cape Town today. Davids‚ 36‚ the youngest coach in the Premier Soccer League‚ will lead a youthful side that lacks big match experience‚ but has plenty of skill‚ pace and enthusiasm against a much more seasoned and wily Stars outfit. Having already taken the team to fourth place in the league‚ their best-ever finish‚ Davids can grow his burgeoning reputation further with Nedbank Cup success. The rookie coach says he knows exactly how the flow of today’s game will go‚ and it will come down to who executes their plans best on the day. “They are a counterattacking side. It is quite obvious we are going to have more possession and they are going to sit back and try and hit us on the counter‚” Davids said. “They are a tough side. Their defensive concept is man-to-man‚ so we are going to have to change our structure a little bit. “I have heard their coach [Luc Eymael] say he has never lost to a 3-5-2‚ so maybe we will play that formation. “We are going to be the attacking team. We are going to be the team that will play on the front foot and will play an enterprising game.” With young stars like Lebohang Maboe‚ Siphesihle Ndlovu‚ Fortune Makaringe and Bandile Shandu‚ there is a big experience gap between Maritzburg and Stars‚ who have a number of their key players such as Paulus Masehe‚ Rooi Mahamutsa‚ Patrick Phungwayo and Siphelele Mthembu that are into their 30s. “Some of our players are in their first season in the PSL‚ others only in their second season. We have a lot of young players‚ so we are going to need the Bevans [Fransman] and the Siyandas [Xulu] to play the calming effect‚” Davids said. “We learnt our lesson when we lost the semifinal [of the MTN8] against SuperSport United. We went through an eight-game winless run in the league after that‚ so it was a tough learning curve. “But we have come on – we beat Sundowns [3-1] when we managed to get to the second semifinal [in the Nedbank] and now we are in the final.” Cape Town will be hosting the final for the first time since Santos beat Ajax Cape Town 2-0 in 2003‚ the only other occasion the Mother City has staged a decider. Stars have played in five previous cup finals but have only a single success to show for that‚ a 3-2 victory over Cape Town side Hellenic in the 1994 Coca-Cola Cup. They appeared in the Nedbank Cup competition that same year‚ but succumbed to a 1-0 loss to Vaal Professionals. Eymael has created a lot of noise about where he won’t be coaching next season‚ constantly denying links with other clubs but he has undoubtedly done an excellent job to turn around the fortunes of a club that has been battling relegation in the last few seasons. Having already claimed a place in next year’s MTN8‚ he could cap his excellent campaign with the Nedbank Cup. — DDC