An Eastern Cape ANC Youth League provincial task team (PTT) leader, who was arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping and assaulting a woman believed to be a prostitute, appeared in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday.  The 38-year-old suspect, who cannot be named as he is yet to plead in court, was remanded in custody and will appear in court tomorrow for a formal bail application. The suspect was arrested after he allegedly assaulted and raped a 28-year-old woman. The victim is believed to be working as a prostitute in East London. Cambridge police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi confirmed that the prominent suspect was arrested and is accused of rape and assault. “We can confirm the case and the man appeared in East London Magistrate’s Court on Monday, facing the two charges,” said Mbi. It is understood that the two met in Quigney and agreed to go to the suspect’s home. The alleged victim initially suggested her place but the suspect insisted that they go to his place. Instead of taking her to his home as agreed, he drove to James Pearce Park in Bunkers Hill – where he allegedly raped and assaulted her. A source within the police said the ANC man allegedly raped and later assaulted the alleged victim but she managed to escape. “As she was running down the road, she came across a police van and flagged it down and the officers on duty assisted her. Later the police returned to the scene and found the suspect there, allegedly with another woman, who is also believed to be a prostitute,” said the officer. The suspect was arrested and he spent the weekend at East London police holding cells. Yesterday, he appeared in court, and was represented by his attorney, Asanda Pakade. Not a single ANC supporter was seen in the gallery but on social networks, the party’s supporters named the suspect. In court, the state said it would oppose bail. Outside the court room, Sex Workers Education and Advocacy Taskforce members, clad in their orange T-shirts, sang and called for the court to deny the suspect bail. They refused to speak to the Dispatch. — bonganif@dispatch.co.za