Véliswa Mvenya, who quit the DA yesterday, said she was not done with politics and said she would find a new political home where she would continue serving Eastern Cape residents. The former DA Eastern Cape provincial chairwoman officially resigned yesterday after communicating her intention to resign to Bhisho legislature leader Bobby Stevenson on Wednesday. In an interview yesterday, Mvenya confirmed that she was taking a break from politics. “I am leaving the DA and politics for a while. I love politics. I am coming back but I need to regain my strength and also make sure that what I have been experiencing lately does not cloud what I joined politics for – which is to better people’s lives and to advocate for better services for the people in our rural areas,” she said. The former maths teacher was instrumental in convincing more black people, especially from the former Transkei, to vote for the party – which is still seen as mostly for white people. Mvenya has been on this road before but she shredded her resignation letter at the 11th-hour following intervention by senior party leaders which included Western Cape premier Helen Zille in 2016. But this time she went ahead with it following months of frustration. It is understood that months after Mvenya lost the Eastern Cape DA leader position to federal chairman Athol Trollip’s ally and right-hand man, Nqaba Bhanga, the DA removed some areas in her constituency leaving her with just seven. Mvenya’s shock resignation comes barely a day after Nosimo Balindlela, another senior DA leader, resigned amid tensions within the Bhisho legislature caucus. This is a major blow for the official opposition party which is scrambling to prove that it is not anti-black, but a party for all as it has been punting itself. Mvenya’s resignation follows the souring of relations between the party and Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille since late last year. De Lille and the DA have been slugging it out in court, with De Lille so far winning the battle. Mvenya is the third DA MPL in Bhisho to throw in the towel since 2015. Nokonwaba Matikinca left the DA in July 2015, accusing the party of being racist. Mvenya joined the DA in 2000 and spent 18 years with the party, working her way up the ranks. Mvenya worked closely with Trollip in building DA structures in the Eastern Cape, especially in the former Transkei where Mvenya comes from. This was when Trollip was the provincial leader and Mvenya the provincial chairwoman. The Dispatch understands senior party leaders were in panic mode late Thursday night, trying to do damage control. Mvenya has been under pressure from the party provincial leadership since 2014, when she defeated Edmund van Vuuren for the provincial chairperson position. In 2016, Mvenya had a fallout with her former ally Trollip, claiming he was factional and a bully. Trollip dismissed the allegations. Last year, Mvenya tried to take over from Trollip when she ran for the provincial leader position, which she lost to Bhanga. In a statement yesterday, Bhanga noted Mvenya’s resignation. — simthandilef@dispatch.co.za —