BY BONGANI FUZILE and TYLER RIDDEN Premier Phumulo Masualle has roped in private investigators to probe the work done on 21 of the 58 road projects that his administration spent R632-million on between the 2013/14 to 215/16 financial years. While specifications for the investigation by The iFirm Trading and Projects are not known, none of the projects – which range from R391000 to R110-million – were awarded through an open tender bidding process as Bhisho awarded the contracts using a deviation clause for “urgency” to fix some of the roads. The tarring, re-gravelling, fixing of potholes and general upgrading of some of the roads in the Eastern Cape was done by the department of roads and public works. But questions have been raised about what some insiders have said is shoddy workmanship by some of the contractors handpicked for the project. One of those opposed to the projects is axed public works CFO Yimile Ngqele, who has likened the R632-million to state capture. He says he was fired for his anti-corruption stance after he raised a red flag and wanted the projects halted when he was employed in 2014. According to Daily Dispatch sources within the department, a number of upgrades were substandard, did not meet all their specifications and simply washed away after “a few downpours”. “This raises a question of where were the department inspectors to check these roads,” said a senior public works official. According to Dispatch calculations from documents provided, the department had spent R222-million on 16 projects for the “re-gravelling” of roads in the 2013/14 financial year – and R111-million later on “urgent flood damage repairs” in 2014/15 and 2015/16. This amount was used to repair some of the same roads in the 2013/14 projects. A further R60-million was supposedly spent for the “resurface of Bhisho streets completion” of the R352 road and repairs to R346 road in the 2014/15 financial year. The R346 is the road between King William’s Town and East London and the R352 is between Stutterheim and King William’s Town. A Dispatch team took a short drive on the two roads on Thursday and encountered more than 40 potholes in about 30km on the R346. The narrow, rugged R352 was less bad but still dangerous. It is a road with a high accident rate. According to the documents, a further R110-million was spent fixing potholes on various district roads via a “piggyback” tender from the Free State department of police, roads and transport. The lowest amount spent was R391000 to construct speed bumps between Flagstaff and the Holy Cross Hospital, while the R110-million said to have been spent on fixing potholes was the highest. Procurement processes were not followed in any of the 58 projects. The Dispatch has been reliably informed that a senior departmental management team, including Ngqele, did call for a forensic investigation, but it was stalled by a “certain clique who had interests in some of the contracts”. A source said the auditor-general had also raised questions as some officials wanted the projects condoned. “The AG refused, saying they must be thoroughly investigated as no processes were followed when procurement was done.” Another senior departmental source said: “We can’t hide this. Some of these roads are tarred, yet for some reason according to the documents we have they were re-gravelled.” Ngqele – who joined the department in July 2014, after a number of these tenders had already been awarded – questioned how they were awarded. “As a result I was suspended and accused of a number of unfounded charges. “The premier’s office knew about these allegations a long time ago. This is state capture. We questioned how KZN companies were given the bulk of the work in our province while there are capable companies here in the province who can do the work,” said Ngqele. Last week it emerged that Masualle had given provincial government head Marion-Mbina Mthembu the thumbs-up to investigate some of the 58 road projects. The iFirm investigation will focus on 21 roads. The company is owned by former police general Mzwandile Petros. Office of the premier spokeswoman Mandisa Titi acknowledged receiving an e-mail with detailed questions on Thursday morning and promised to “look into it”. However, she failed to comment as she had promised. Asked about the investigation in her department, public works spokeswoman Vuyokazi Mbanjwa said: “We know. The department has been briefed and we are cooperating.” — bonganif@dispatch. co.za / tylerr@dispatch.co.za