A battle has broken out on Walter Sisulu’s Mthatha campus between some students and the university’s hired security guards. On Sunday nine students were treated for minor bruises and cuts after students clashed with the guards. They were all treated at Mthatha Regional Hospital and discharged said health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo. In a startling allegation, the university has accused unnamed druglords of stoking up student animosity against the Fidelity guards in order to clear their way to supplying the students with drugs. The druglords’ tactics, said WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo, included arriving on campus with cars loaded with booze which was distributed for free to students during a sports tournament over the weekend. Tukwayo said the tactic was to fuel student rage against the Fidelity guards whose job it was to protect the campus from the influx of drugs and illegal liquor. However, Tukwayo said the university had also asked Fidelity to change their approach towards students. The students are accusing the security guards of harassing and victimising students are demanding that the guards are removed. Academic activities were disrupted yesterday as students mobilised to try and have the company removed. A student mass meeting at the Nelson Mandela Drive learning site resolved to boycott classes until Fidelity company had its contract terminated. SRC academic officer Luvo Kasa said students had suffered harassment and victimisation at the hands of the the security guards. “Students said they could not take it anymore and do not want Fidelity security guards anywhere near the university.” Kasa said there were no clashes yesterday. He said students were meeting at 10am today to make further decisions about the boycott. “SRC members will be giving feedback to students on a meeting they had with management committee in EL [yesterday].” Kasa had rubbished the university’s argument that druglords who wanted Fidelity security guards gone so that they could supply students with drugs were stoking up student anger against the guards. Tukwayo was adamant that druglords were behind the violence. “The reason (for the violence) is that there are people from outside who were part of a drug ring, others are druglords that were using the university as a distribution point and market for them,” she said. lWhen the Dispatch called national Fidelity office yesterday a man who introduced himself as Dolf du Toit said he was aware of the allegations against their security guards, but referred the reporter to their Mthatha office. The number he gave the reporter rang unanswered.   