By SIKHO NTSHOBANE and MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI THE standoff between the state and taxi bosses in Mthatha over closed taxi ranks and impounded taxis sparked angry protest in Mthatha yesterday. Threats to take transport MEC Weziwe Tikana to court were made by Sanco and taxi bosses, who led a crowd waving hostile posters aimed at the MEC. Ten ranks in Mthatha were closed by Police Minister Bheki Cele earlier this year. Nearly 60 people have died in a three-year taxi war. Yesterday, 1500 protesters marched to King Sabata Dalindyebo (KSD) municipality offices demanding the immediate reopening of ranks and release of all taxis impounded by the government. As many as 115 taxis were impounded last month following a wildcat strike by taxi operators. The marchers claim the two ranks that were reopened by Cele were too far away and operators and commuters found themselves at the mercy of criminals, especially when walking to catch a taxi at night. Mthatha was brought to a standstill yesterday, with shopkeepers fearing they would be looted. The marchers waved placards demanding “Weziwe must fall” and “Buyisa iirank Weziwe (Bring back the ranks Weziwe)”. Sanco provincial chairman Zukile Luyenge said the decision to shut down the ranks was “bad”, especially when there was no proper consultation. “It was done in the wrong way. They were closed to stop the killings but now there are people dying because they are closed,” he said. Cele closed all taxi ranks in the conflict- ridden roads radiating out from Mthatha to Port St Johns, Tsolo, Maclear and Ugie. “This was meant to end the taxi violence in which 60 people have died since 2016. Jubilee Taxi and the Chatam ranks in Mthatha were later reopened for operations by Cele. A third rank called Marikana was later also reopened. Luyenge said: “Some [taxi owners] have paid to have their taxis released but others cannot [afford it].” He said they wanted MEC Tikana to resolve the situation and if not, Luyenge threatened, “we will take her to court”. KSD municipal spokesman Sonwabo Mampoza said Sanco had met with KSD’s leadership, led by mayor Dumani Zozo. “[However] it’s in the MEC’s hands and beyond the mayor’s hand,” he said. Provincial transport spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie yesterday said the closure of other ranks was a temporary arrangement and that the department was fixing a number of “issues”. “We are busy looking at other ranks while considering issues like traffic flow and the question of whether those ranks have adequate infrastructure, including security, ablution facilities and waste management facilities.” She said the MEC had previously spoken to Sanco and pointed out that there were three ranks currently operating instead of two. OR Tambo Chamber of Business president Vuyisile Ntlabati slammed the state for having failed to consult with business owners, hawkers and residents prior to the closure of the ranks. He said the closures had inconvenienced everyone and were harming business “big time” as shopping patterns had shifted. At a media briefing in Zwelitsha on Tuesday, Tikana announced plans by her office to reduce the number of permanent taxi ranks in the Mthatha city centre permanently from 10 to five to stop territorial clashes. She said taxi operators were failing to abide by the peace treaty they had agreed to, and had only themselves to blame. “We are committed to increase the number of ranks but that can only be done when we have observed that there is a way of moving towards peace amongst the two rival groups. The Government Gazette stated that we should shut all of them but after the signing of the peace agreement we opened two. “We opened the third one last week after the operators complained of congestion in the two ranks. But most of their taxis don’t have permits. “To date, three ranks have been opened in Mthatha, namely Chatham and Jubilee, and last week Marikana taxi rank was opened, and it is being prioritised for cleaning since it was found to be in a very bad state. “The department has since dispatched labourers from the expanded public works programme to the area for a major cleanup of the ranks.” Tikana said: “Certain taxi associations were hogging certain ranks and refused to share them with other associations.” Mthatha did not need 10 ranks. Johannesburg had three taxi ranks and Mdantsane only had Highway taxi rank, she added.