Umzimvubu municipality is spending almost R29-million this year towards creating a host of new access roads and upgrading existing roads. Mayor Bulelwa Mabengu, while addressing a media breakfast in KwaBhaca (formerly Mount Frere) on Thursday, said nine access roads adding up to approximately 41.9km would be constructed in EmaXesibeni (formerly Mount Ayliff). A further 10 access roads which stretched over 48km would be constructed in KwaBhaca, she said. The mayor said the upgrading of the existing access roads that were in a poor condition including the Phuti Eco Hub, which connects Ntabankulu to the N2 between to the towns falling under the Umzimvubu, would also benefit from the R29-million. “We strive to maintain all locally- constructed roads by the municipality on an annual basis,” Mabengu said. “However, the problem lies with the district roads that are under the department of roads and public works and many other provincial roads under the department of transport. “In trying to mitigate the situation of these roads, the municipality can only engage the affected departments for a comprehensive solution.” She said the access roads were used by villagers on a daily basis to reach areas of commercial trade and other public facilities. As such, the municipality’s responsibility was to ensure that it created easier access for all road users within the municipality. The municipality received the money from the National Treasury and will also use its municipal infrastructure grant, while also digging into the municipality’s own coffers. Mabengu, however, conceded that the budget was not enough to cover the fixing of all road networks in the two towns. To make matters worse, the municipal area was prone to rainy conditions, which further degraded the condition of the roads. She said this often necessitated some of the roads, especially gravel roads in the rural areas, to be built from scratch. One of the new access roads is in Mdakeni village in the rural hinterlands of KwaBhaca. “[Once completed], it will enable its residents to be able to gain access to basic services and other economic opportunities,” she said. The project, which involved 7.3km, was already 70% complete, she said. Another involved the construction of a 4km road and a new bridge at Bamko village in EmaXesibeni at a cost of R2.1-million. The village is divided into two sections by a river, meaning its 200 residents have to cross it to get to the other side. Mabengu said the bridge would connect the community to graveyards located on one side of the village. l Municipal authorities have also allocated more than R31-million towards the electrification of more than 4000 households. But the mayor revealed that the power utility had come into the fray by investing a further R42-million towards the electrification of more rural homesteads. “This means that more communities will be electrified after years of living in the dark with no lights or any source of electricity,” she said. — sikhon@dispatch.co.za