Avid East London shooting enthusiast Herman Schreiber is gearing up to travel with the Senior Open Gun team to represent South Africa at the IPCS Shotgun World Shoot 2018, to be held in Chateauroux, France next month. Schreiber was selected to represent his country after an impressive performance at the national championships last year where he achieved the required percentage to qualify for his Protea Colours. “I was totally surprised at the nationals last year. When my name was called I hesitated standing up and going forward until I heard my daughter screaming with delight,” said Schreiber. “I really thought the guys were just joking as I really only shoot for the enjoyment of the sport and the camaraderie of the persons who have similar interests. “I must admit that a tear did come to my eye when I realised what I had achieved.” It is all set to be a massive test for Schreiber, with it being his first time competing overseas, and he will be eager to impress. He will be aiming to work with the SA team to try and achieve as high a finish as they can against some of the best shooters in the world. “This is the first time I will be travelling outside the country and I hope to achieve at least a top 20 Senior Open Gun position in the world,” said Schreiber. “We compete as a team, alongside other senior teams in our squad and others, and really support our fellow teammates. “There are four members per team and various divisions, namely Senior Open Gun, Open Gun, Standard Gun and Standard Manual. “A few individual members will also compete. I think all our teams have a good chance at a medal.” Schreiber has been shooting for over 51 years, since around the age of four, while he did a lot of hunting in Zimbabwe, where he grew up. He moved to East London, the birth place of his late father in 1983 before being transferred to Johannesburg in 1990 and started shooting IPSC in about 1992. “The ‘P’ stands for Practical shooting, formerly known as ‘Combat’ shooting.” He was then invited to join the Knights Practical Shooting Club in Johannesburg by members that had watched him shooting on the public range, telling him they thought he had potential, and the rest is history. Schreiber is currently the Border Combat Club and Eastern Cape Practical Shooting Association Open Gun champion and holds provincial colours for handgun and shotgun shooting. He achieved 15th place at the Africa Area Handgun champs, come fourth, fifth and sixth at the national shotgun championships and 15th at the national rifle championships, and is also a qualified range officer. This weekend he will be at the Border Combat Club, Old Snows Quarry in Abbotsford, for the Club Handgun champs. “I definitely will put a minor hold on my shotgun practice to try to win the five Open Gun trophies on offer that I won last year and previous years,” said Schreiber. “Shooters will be competing for trophies and first, second and third place medals in Open, Standard, Production and Classic Divisions, in Gold, Silver and Bronze class. “Look out for Louis Oosthuizen and Clint Els, two of our top competitors, and Keith Fleischman, at 81 years old.” After the weekend Schreiber’s attention will turn to the world shoot. “I would never have been able to afford to go to the Shotgun World Shoot this June 2018 if it were not for the generous sponsorship of friends and family,” said Schreiber. “My main sponsors, who for their efforts have their name on my Protea Shooting shirts are Tembuland Gas, Yellowsands Caravan Park, Black Scorpion Protection Services, East Coast Fumigation and Rheinmetall. “A special mention to my mother-in-law, Carroll Pearson, who sponsored mine and my wife, Barbara’s flights. “There were many others who donated and I thank you all and their names appear on my shotgun slip which will go with me wherever I shoot shotgun competitions.” Once he returns from the world shoot Schreiber will look to get back into the thick of things, with the Eastern Cape Handgun champs to be held here in East London, followed by the Africa Area Handgun champs in Polokwane in July. “Then it will be the shotgun nationals and rifle nationals later in the year ending with our famous Steel Challenge at Border Combat Club in November,” said Schreiber. “I hope to achieve provincial colours in Practical Rifle Shooting soon and thereafter try and qualify for a World or European Championship.”