Children carrying placards reading “No bail for rape and murder” and “Don’t hurt us” joined scores of people at the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court‚ where a man accused of raping a child in a restaurant toilet will appear on Tuesday. Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga arrived at the court building‚ where political parties and onlookers had gathered in numbers. Roads around the court were closed and there was a heavy police presence. Msimanga‚ who met with the family of the victim‚ said they were “taking it very very hard”. Msimanga said he met with members of the family on Monday to offer support. The mother was not available for the meeting.“We will continue to offer whatever support they need from us in this particular time. The engagement was very heartbreaking‚ because you have an innocent child that doesn’t know what is happening around them‚” he said. “You feel a sense of wanting to do more but you don’t know what more you can do.” The 20-year-old man stands accused of raping a six-year-old girl in the bathroom of a Dros restaurant in Pretoria. He made his first appearance in court last Tuesday after the incident‚ which took place on September 22. The case was postponed for seven days for further investigation. He faces a charge of rape‚ possession of drugs‚ intimidation and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The Democratic Alliance (DA) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have announced they will picket outside court when the man makes his appearance. The man allegedly watched the little girl in the restaurant play area and later followed her to the bathroom. According to patrons‚ the mother of the child went looking for her after she noticed she was not in the play area. She allegedly caught her daughter’s attacker in the act. A video purportedly taken moments after the rape ordeal depicted a naked man‚ partly covered in blood. The government has called on people not to share the “disturbing” video. The EFF’s Tshwane region has called for the man to be denied bail. The ANC Women’s League in Gauteng also added to calls that the man be denied bail.